May 2007People who worry about the increasing gap between rich and poor
generally look back on the mid twentieth century as a golden age.
In those days we had a large number of high-paying union manufacturing
jobs that boosted the median income.  I wouldn't quite call the
high-paying union job a myth, but I think people who dwell on it
are reading too much into it.Oddly enough, it was working with startups that made me realize
where the high-paying union job came from.  In a rapidly growing
market, you don't worry too much about efficiency.  It's more
important to grow fast.  If there's some mundane problem getting
in your way, and there's a simple solution that's somewhat expensive,
just take it and get on with more important things.  EBay didn't
win by paying less for servers than their competitors.Difficult though it may be to imagine now, manufacturing was a
growth industry in the mid twentieth century.  This was an era when
small firms making everything from cars to candy were getting
consolidated into a new kind of corporation with national reach and
huge economies of scale.  You had to grow fast or die.  Workers
were for these companies what servers are for an Internet startup.
A reliable supply was more important than low cost.If you looked in the head of a 1950s auto executive, the attitude
must have been: sure, give 'em whatever they ask for, so long as
the new model isn't delayed.In other words, those workers were not paid what their work was
worth.  Circumstances being what they were, companies would have
been stupid to insist on paying them so little.If you want a less controversial example of this phenomenon, ask
anyone who worked as a consultant building web sites during the
Internet Bubble.  In the late nineties you could get paid huge sums
of money for building the most trivial things.  And yet does anyone
who was there have any expectation those days will ever return?  I
doubt it.  Surely everyone realizes that was just a temporary
aberration.The era of labor unions seems to have been the same kind of aberration, 
just spread
over a longer period, and mixed together with a lot of ideology
that prevents people from viewing it with as cold an eye as they
would something like consulting during the Bubble.Basically, unions were just Razorfish.People who think the labor movement was the creation of heroic union
organizers have a problem to explain: why are unions shrinking now?
The best they can do is fall back on the default explanation of
people living in fallen civilizations.  Our ancestors were giants.
The workers of the early twentieth century must have had a moral
courage that's lacking today.In fact there's a simpler explanation.  The early twentieth century
was just a fast-growing startup overpaying for infrastructure.  And
we in the present are not a fallen people, who have abandoned
whatever mysterious high-minded principles produced the high-paying
union job.  We simply live in a time when the fast-growing companies
overspend on different things.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2007(This essay is derived from a keynote talk at the 2007 ASES Summit
at Stanford.)The world of investors is a foreign one to most hackers—partly
because investors are so unlike hackers, and partly because they
tend to operate in secret.  I've been dealing with this world for
many years, both as a founder and an investor, and I still don't
fully understand it.In this essay I'm going to list some of the more surprising things
I've learned about investors.  Some I only learned in the past year.Teaching hackers how to deal with investors is probably the second
most important thing we do at Y Combinator.  The most important
thing for a startup is to make something good.  But everyone knows
that's important.  The dangerous thing about investors is that
hackers don't know how little they know about this strange world.1. The investors are what make a startup hub.About a year ago I tried to figure out what you'd need to reproduce
Silicon Valley.  I decided the 
critical ingredients were rich people
and nerds—investors and founders.  People are all you need to
make technology, and all the other people will move.If I had to narrow that down, I'd say investors are the limiting
factor.  Not because they contribute more to the startup, but simply
because they're least willing to move.  They're rich.  They're not
going to move to Albuquerque just because there are some smart
hackers there they could invest in.  Whereas hackers will move to
the Bay Area to find investors.2. Angel investors are the most critical.There are several types of investors.  The two main categories are
angels and VCs: VCs invest other people's money, and angels invest
their own.Though they're less well known, the angel investors are probably
the more critical ingredient in creating a silicon valley.  Most
companies that VCs invest in would never have made it that far if angels
hadn't invested first.  VCs say between half and three quarters of
companies that raise series A rounds have taken some outside
investment already.
[1]Angels are willing to fund riskier projects than VCs.  They also
give valuable advice, because (unlike VCs) many have been startup
founders themselves.Google's story shows the key role angels play. A lot of people know
Google raised money from Kleiner and Sequoia.  What most don't realize
is how late.  That VC round was a series B round; the premoney
valuation was $75 million.  Google was already a successful company
at that point.  Really, Google was funded with angel money.It may seem odd that the canonical Silicon Valley startup was funded
by angels, but this is not so surprising.  Risk is always proportionate
to reward.  So the most successful startup of all is likely to have
seemed an extremely risky bet at first, and that is exactly the
kind VCs won't touch.Where do angel investors come from?  From other startups.  So startup
hubs like Silicon Valley benefit from something like the marketplace
effect, but shifted in time: startups are there because startups
were there.3. Angels don't like publicity.If angels are so important, why do we hear more about VCs?  Because
VCs like publicity.  They need to market themselves to the investors
who are their "customers"—the endowments and pension funds and
rich families whose money they invest—and also to founders who
might come to them for funding.Angels don't need to market themselves to investors because they
invest their own money.  Nor do they want to market themselves to
founders: they don't want random people pestering them with business
plans.  Actually, neither do VCs.  Both angels and VCs get deals
almost exclusively through personal introductions.  
[2]The reason VCs want a strong brand is not to draw in more business
plans over the transom, but so they win deals when competing
against other VCs.  Whereas angels are rarely in direct competition,
because (a) they do fewer deals, (b) they're happy to split them,
and (c) they invest at a point where the stream is broader.4. Most investors, especially VCs, are not like founders.Some angels are, or were, hackers.  But most VCs are a different
type of people: they're dealmakers.If you're a hacker, here's a thought experiment you can run to
understand why there are basically no hacker VCs: How would you
like a job where you never got to make anything, but instead spent
all your time listening to other people pitch (mostly terrible)
projects, deciding whether to fund them, and sitting on their boards
if you did?  That would not be fun for most hackers.  Hackers like
to make things.  This would be like being an administrator.Because most VCs are a different species of people from
founders, it's hard to know what they're thinking.  If you're a
hacker, the last time you had to deal with these guys was in high
school.  Maybe in college you walked past their fraternity on your
way to the lab.  But don't underestimate them.  They're as expert
in their world as you are in yours.  What they're good at is reading
people, and making deals work to their advantage.  Think twice
before you try to beat them at that.5. Most investors are momentum investors.Because most investors are dealmakers rather than technology people,
they generally don't understand what you're doing.  I knew as a
founder that most VCs didn't get technology.  I also knew some made
a lot of money.  And yet it never occurred to me till recently to
put those two ideas together and ask "How can VCs make money by
investing in stuff they don't understand?"The answer is that they're like momentum investors.  You can (or
could once) make a lot of money by noticing sudden changes in stock
prices.  When a stock jumps upward, you buy, and when it suddenly
drops, you sell.  In effect you're insider trading, without knowing
what you know.  You just know someone knows something, and that's
making the stock move.This is how most venture investors operate.  They don't try to look
at something and predict whether it will take off.  They win by
noticing that something is taking off a little sooner than everyone
else.  That generates almost as good returns as actually being able
to pick winners.  They may have to pay a little more than they would
if they got in at the very beginning, but only a little.Investors always say what they really care about is the team.
Actually what they care most about is your traffic, then what other
investors think, then the team.  If you don't yet have any traffic,
they fall back on number 2, what other investors think.  And this,
as you can imagine, produces wild oscillations in the "stock price"
of a startup.  One week everyone wants you, and they're begging not
to be cut out of the deal.  But all it takes is for one big investor
to cool on you, and the next week no one will return your phone
calls.  We regularly have startups go from hot to cold or cold to
hot in a matter of days, and literally nothing has changed.There are two ways to deal with this phenomenon.  If you're feeling
really confident, you can try to ride it.  You can start by asking
a comparatively lowly VC for a small amount of money, and then after
generating interest there, ask more prestigious VCs for larger
amounts, stirring up a crescendo of buzz, and then "sell" at the
top.  This is extremely risky, and takes months even if you succeed.
I wouldn't try it myself.  My advice is to err on the side of safety:
when someone offers you a decent deal, just take it and get on with
building the company.  Startups win or lose based on the quality
of their product, not the quality of their funding deals.6. Most investors are looking for big hits.Venture investors like companies that could go public.  That's where
the big returns are.  They know the odds of any individual startup
going public are small, but they want to invest in those that at
least have a chance of going public.Currently the way VCs seem to operate is to invest in a bunch of
companies, most of which fail, and one of which is Google.  Those
few big wins compensate for losses on their other investments.  What this
means is that most VCs will only invest in you if you're a potential
Google.  They don't care about companies that are a safe bet to be
acquired for $20 million.  There needs to be a chance, however
small, of the company becoming really big.Angels are different in this respect.  They're happy to invest in
a company where the most likely outcome is a $20 million acquisition
if they can do it at a low enough valuation.  But of course they
like companies that could go public too.  So having an ambitious
long-term plan pleases everyone.If you take VC money, you have to mean it, because the structure
of VC deals prevents early acquisitions.  If you take VC money,
they won't let you sell early.7. VCs want to invest large amounts.The fact that they're running investment funds makes VCs want to
invest large amounts.  A typical VC fund is now hundreds of millions
of dollars.  If $400 million has to be invested by 10 partners,
they have to invest $40 million each.  VCs usually sit on the boards
of companies they fund.  If the average deal size was $1 million,
each partner would have to sit on 40 boards, which would not be
fun.  So they prefer bigger deals, where they can put a lot of money
to work at once.VCs don't regard you as a bargain if you don't need a lot of money.
That may even make you less attractive, because it means their
investment creates less of a barrier to entry for competitors.Angels are in a different position because they're investing their
own money.  They're happy to invest small amounts—sometimes as
little as $20,000—as long as the potential returns look good
enough.  So if you're doing something inexpensive, go to angels.8. Valuations are fiction.VCs admit that valuations are an artifact.  They decide how much
money you need and how much of the company they want, and those two
constraints yield a valuation.Valuations increase as the size of the investment does.  A company
that an angel is willing to put $50,000 into at a valuation of a
million can't take $6 million from VCs at that valuation.  That
would leave the founders less than a seventh of the company between
them (since the option pool would also come out of that seventh).
Most VCs wouldn't want that, which is why you never hear of deals
where a VC invests $6 million at a premoney valuation of $1 million.If valuations change depending on the amount invested, that shows
how far they are from reflecting any kind of value of the company.Since valuations are made up, founders shouldn't care too much about
them.  That's not the part to focus on.  In fact, a high valuation
can be a bad thing.  If you take funding at a premoney valuation
of $10 million, you won't be selling the company for 20.  You'll
have to sell for over 50 for the VCs to get even a 5x return, which
is low to them.  More likely they'll want you to hold out for 100.
But needing to get a high price decreases the chance of getting
bought at all; many companies can buy you for $10 million, but only
a handful for 100.  And since a startup is like a pass/fail course
for the founders, what you want to optimize is your chance of a
good outcome, not the percentage of the company you keep.So why do founders chase high valuations?  They're tricked by
misplaced ambition.  They feel they've achieved more if they get a
higher valuation.  They usually know other founders, and if they
get a higher valuation they can say "mine is bigger than yours."
But funding is not the real test.  The real test is the final outcome
for the founder, and getting too high a valuation may just make a
good outcome less likely.The one advantage of a high valuation is that you get less dilution.
But there is another less sexy way to achieve that: just take less
money.9. Investors look for founders like the current stars.Ten years ago investors were looking for the next Bill Gates.  This
was a mistake, because Microsoft was a very anomalous startup.  They
started almost as a contract programming operation, and the reason
they became huge was that IBM happened to drop the PC standard in
their lap.Now all the VCs are looking for the next Larry and Sergey.  This
is a good trend, because Larry and Sergey are closer to the ideal
startup founders.Historically investors thought it was important for a founder to
be an expert in business.  So they were willing to fund teams of
MBAs who planned to use the money to pay programmers to build their
product for them.  This is like funding Steve Ballmer in the hope
that the programmer he'll hire is Bill Gates—kind of backward,
as the events of the Bubble showed.  Now most VCs know they should
be funding technical guys.  This is more pronounced among the very
top funds; the lamer ones still want to fund MBAs.If you're a hacker, it's good news that investors are looking for
Larry and Sergey.  The bad news is, the only investors who can do
it right are the ones who knew them when they were a
couple of CS grad students, not the confident media stars they are
today.  What investors still don't get is how clueless and tentative
great founders can seem at the very beginning.10. The contribution of investors tends to be underestimated.Investors do more for startups than give them money.  They're helpful
in doing deals and arranging introductions, and some of the smarter
ones, particularly angels, can give good advice about the product.In fact, I'd say what separates the great investors from the mediocre
ones is the quality of their advice.  Most investors give advice,
but the top ones give good advice.Whatever help investors give a startup tends to be underestimated.
It's to everyone's advantage to let the world think the founders
thought of everything.  The goal of the investors is for the company
to become valuable, and the company seems more valuable if it seems
like all the good ideas came from within.This trend is compounded by the obsession that the press has with
founders.  In a company founded by two people, 10% of the ideas
might come from the first guy they hire.  Arguably they've done a
bad job of hiring otherwise.  And yet this guy will be almost
entirely overlooked by the press.I say this as a founder: the contribution of founders is always
overestimated.  The danger here is that new founders, looking at
existing founders, will think that they're supermen that one couldn't
possibly equal oneself.  Actually they have a hundred different
types of support people just offscreen making the whole show possible.
[3]11. VCs are afraid of looking bad.I've been very surprised to discover how timid most VCs are.  They
seem to be afraid of looking bad to their partners, and perhaps
also to the limited partners—the people whose money they invest.You can measure this fear in how much less risk VCs are willing to
take.  You can tell they won't make investments for their fund that
they might be willing to make themselves as angels.  Though it's
not quite accurate to say that VCs are less willing to take risks.
They're less willing to do things that might look bad.  That's not
the same thing.For example, most VCs would be very reluctant to invest in a startup
founded by a pair of 18 year old hackers, no matter how brilliant,
because if the startup failed their partners could turn on them and
say "What, you invested $x million of our money in a pair of 18
year olds?"  Whereas if a VC invested in a startup founded by
three former banking executives in their 40s who planned to outsource
their product development—which to my mind is actually a lot
riskier than investing in a pair of really smart 18 year olds—he
couldn't be faulted, if it failed, for making such an apparently
prudent investment.As a friend of mine said, "Most VCs can't do anything that would
sound bad to the kind of doofuses who run pension funds." Angels
can take greater risks because they don't have to answer to anyone.12. Being turned down by investors doesn't mean much.Some founders are quite dejected when they get turned down by
investors.  They shouldn't take it so much to heart.  To start with,
investors are often wrong.  It's hard to think of a successful
startup that wasn't turned down by investors at some point.  Lots
of VCs rejected Google.  So obviously the reaction of investors is
not a very meaningful test.Investors will often reject you for what seem to be superficial
reasons.  I read of one VC who 
turned
down a startup simply because
they'd given away so many little bits of stock that the deal required
too many signatures to close. 
[4]
The reason investors can get away
with this is that they see so many deals.  It doesn't matter if
they underestimate you because of some surface imperfection, because
the next best deal will be almost as good.  
Imagine picking out
apples at a grocery store.  You grab one with a little bruise.
Maybe it's just a surface bruise, but why even bother checking when
there are so many other unbruised apples to choose from?Investors would be the first to admit they're often wrong.  So when
you get rejected by investors, don't think "we suck," but instead
ask "do we suck?"  Rejection is a question, not an answer.13. Investors are emotional.I've been surprised to discover how emotional investors can be.
You'd expect them to be cold and calculating, or at least businesslike,
but often they're not.  I'm not sure if it's their position of power
that makes them this way, or the large sums of money involved, but
investment negotiations can easily turn personal.  If you offend
investors, they'll leave in a huff.A while ago an eminent VC firm offered a series A round to a startup
we'd seed funded.  Then they heard a rival VC firm was also interested.
They were so afraid that they'd be rejected in favor of this other
firm that they gave the startup what's known as an "exploding
termsheet."  They had, I think, 24 hours to say yes or no, or the
deal was off.  Exploding termsheets are a somewhat dubious device,
but not uncommon.  What surprised me was their reaction when I
called to talk about it.  I asked if they'd still be interested in
the startup if the rival VC didn't end up making an offer, and they
said no.  What rational basis could they have had for saying that?
If they thought the startup was worth investing in, what difference
should it make what some other VC thought?  Surely it was their
duty to their limited partners simply to invest in the best
opportunities they found; they should be delighted if the other VC
said no, because it would mean they'd overlooked a good opportunity.
But of course there was no rational basis for their decision.  They
just couldn't stand the idea of taking this rival firm's rejects.In this case the exploding termsheet was not (or not only) a tactic
to pressure the startup.  It was more like the high school trick
of breaking up with someone before they can break up with you.  In
an earlier essay I said that VCs were a lot like high school girls.
A few VCs have joked about that characterization, but none have
disputed it.14. The negotiation never stops till the closing.Most deals, for investment or acquisition, happen in two phases.
There's an initial phase of negotiation about the big questions.
If this succeeds you get a termsheet, so called because it outlines
the key terms of a deal.  A termsheet is not legally binding,
but it is a definite step.  It's supposed to mean that a
deal is going to happen, once the lawyers work out all the details.
In theory these details are minor ones; by definition all the
important points are supposed to be covered in the termsheet.Inexperience and wishful thinking combine to make founders feel
that when they have a termsheet, they have a deal.  They want there
to be a deal; everyone acts like they have a deal; so there must
be a deal.  But there isn't and may not be for several months.  A
lot can change for a startup in several months.  It's not uncommon
for investors and acquirers to get buyer's remorse.  So you have
to keep pushing, keep selling, all the way to the close.  Otherwise
all the "minor" details left unspecified in the termsheet will be
interpreted to your disadvantage.  The other side may even break
the deal; if they do that, they'll usually seize on some technicality
or claim you misled them, rather than admitting they changed their
minds.It can be hard to keep the pressure on an investor or acquirer all
the way to the closing, because the most effective pressure is
competition from other investors or acquirers, and these tend to
drop away when you get a termsheet.  You should try to stay as close
friends as you can with these rivals, but the most important thing
is just to keep up the momentum in your startup.  The investors or
acquirers chose you because you seemed hot.  Keep doing whatever
made you seem hot.  Keep releasing new features; keep getting new
users; keep getting mentioned in the press and in blogs.15. Investors like to co-invest.I've been surprised how willing investors are to split deals.  You
might think that if they found a good deal they'd want it all to
themselves, but they seem positively eager to syndicate.  This is
understandable with angels; they invest on a smaller scale and don't
like to have too much money tied up in any one deal.  But VCs also
share deals a lot.  Why?Partly I think this is an artifact of the rule I quoted earlier:
after traffic, VCs care most what other VCs think.  A deal that has
multiple VCs interested in it is more likely to close, so of deals
that close, more will have multiple investors.There is one rational reason to want multiple VCs in a deal: Any
investor who co-invests with you is one less investor who could
fund a competitor.  Apparently Kleiner and Sequoia didn't like
splitting the Google deal, but it did at least have the advantage,
from each one's point of view, that there probably wouldn't be a
competitor funded by the other.  Splitting deals thus has similar
advantages to confusing paternity.But I think the main reason VCs like splitting deals is the fear
of looking bad.  If another firm shares the deal, then in the event
of failure it will seem to have been a prudent choice—a consensus
decision, rather than just the whim of an individual partner.16. Investors collude.Investing is not covered by antitrust law.  At least, it better not
be, because investors regularly do things that would be illegal
otherwise.  I know personally of cases where one investor has talked
another out of making a competitive offer, using the promise of
sharing future deals.In principle investors are all competing for the same deals, but
the spirit of cooperation is stronger than the spirit of competition.
The reason, again, is that there are so many deals.  Though a
professional investor may have a closer relationship with a founder
he invests in than with other investors, his relationship with the
founder is only going to last a couple years, whereas his relationship
with other firms will last his whole career.  There isn't so much
at stake in his interactions with other investors, but there will
be a lot of them.  Professional investors are constantly trading
little favors.Another reason investors stick together is to preserve the power
of investors as a whole.  So you will not, as of this writing, be
able to get investors into an auction for your series A round.
They'd rather lose the deal than establish a precedent of VCs
competitively bidding against one another.  An efficient startup
funding market may be coming in the distant future; things tend to
move in that direction; but it's certainly not here now.
17. Large-scale investors care about their portfolio, not any
individual company.The reason startups work so well is that everyone with power also
has equity.  The only way any of them can succeed is if they all
do.  This makes everyone naturally pull in the same direction,
subject to differences of opinion about tactics.The problem is, larger scale investors don't have exactly the same
motivation.  Close, but not identical. They don't need any given
startup to succeed, like founders do, just their portfolio as a
whole to.  So in borderline cases the rational thing for them to
do is to sacrifice unpromising startups.Large-scale investors tend to put startups in three categories:
successes, failures, and the "living dead"—companies that are
plugging along but don't seem likely in the immediate future to get
bought or go public.  To the founders, "living dead" sounds harsh.
These companies may be far from failures by ordinary standards. But
they might as well be from a venture investor's point of view, and
they suck up just as much time and attention as the successes.  So
if such a company has two possible strategies, a conservative one
that's slightly more likely to work in the end, or a risky one that
within a short time will either yield a giant success or kill the
company, VCs will push for the kill-or-cure option.  To them the
company is already a write-off.  Better to have resolution, one way
or the other, as soon as possible.If a startup gets into real trouble, instead of trying to save it
VCs may just sell it at a low price to another of their portfolio
companies.  Philip Greenspun said in Founders at Work that Ars Digita's VCs did this to them.18. Investors have different risk profiles from founders.Most people would rather a 100% chance of $1 million than a 20%
chance of $10 million.  Investors are rich enough to be rational
and prefer the latter.  So they'll always tend to encourage founders
to keep rolling the dice.  If a company is doing well, investors
will want founders to turn down most acquisition offers.  And indeed,
most startups that turn down acquisition offers ultimately do better.
But it's still hair-raising for the founders, because they might
end up with nothing.  When someone's offering to buy you for a price
at which your stock is worth $5 million, saying no is equivalent
to having $5 million and betting it all on one spin of the roulette
wheel.Investors will tell you the company is worth more.  And they may
be right.  But that doesn't mean it's wrong to sell.  Any financial
advisor who put all his client's assets in the stock of a single,
private company would probably lose his license for it.More and more, investors are letting founders cash out partially.
That should correct the problem. Most founders have such low standards
that they'll feel rich with a sum that doesn't seem huge to investors.
But this custom is spreading too slowly, because VCs are afraid of
seeming irresponsible.  No one wants to be the first VC to give
someone fuck-you money and then actually get told "fuck you." But
until this does start to happen, we know VCs are being too conservative.19. Investors vary greatly.Back when I was a founder I used to think all VCs were the same.
And in fact they do all look 
the same.  They're all what hackers
call "suits."  But since I've been dealing with VCs more I've learned
that some suits are smarter than others.They're also in a business where winners tend to keep winning and
losers to keep losing.  When a VC firm has been successful in the
past, everyone wants funding from them, so they get the pick of all
the new deals.  The self-reinforcing nature of the venture funding
market means that the top ten firms live in a completely different
world from, say, the hundredth.  As well as being smarter, they
tend to be calmer and more upstanding; they don't need to do iffy
things to get an edge, and don't want to because they have more
brand to protect.There are only two kinds of VCs you want to take money from, if you
have the luxury of choosing: the "top tier" VCs, meaning about the
top 20 or so firms, plus a few new ones that are not among the top
20 only because they haven't been around long enough.It's particularly important to raise money from a top firm if you're
a hacker, because they're more confident.  That means they're less
likely to stick you with a business guy as CEO, like VCs used to
do in the 90s.  If you seem smart and want to do it, they'll let
you run the company.20. Investors don't realize how much it costs to raise money from
them.Raising money is a huge time suck at just the point where startups
can least afford it. It's not unusual for it to take five or six
months to close a funding round.  Six weeks is fast.  And raising
money is not just something you can leave running as a background
process.  When you're raising money, it's inevitably the main focus
of the company.  Which means building the product isn't.Suppose a Y Combinator company starts talking to VCs after demo
day, and is successful in raising money from them, closing the deal
after a comparatively short 8 weeks.  Since demo day occurs after
10 weeks, the company is now 18 weeks old.  Raising money, rather
than working on the product, has been the company's main focus for
44% of its existence.  And mind you, this an example where things
turned out well.When a startup does return to working on the product after a funding
round finally closes, it's as if they were returning to work after
a months-long illness.  They've lost most of their momentum.Investors have no idea how much they damage the companies they
invest in by taking so long to do it.  But companies do. So there
is a big opportunity here for a new kind of venture fund that invests
smaller amounts at lower valuations, but promises to either close
or say no very quickly.  If there were such a firm, I'd recommend
it to startups in preference to any other, no matter how prestigious.
Startups live on speed and momentum.21. Investors don't like to say no.The reason funding deals take so long to close is mainly that
investors can't make up their minds.  VCs are not big companies;
they can do a deal in 24 hours if they need to.  But they usually
let the initial meetings stretch out over a couple weeks.  The
reason is the selection algorithm I mentioned earlier.  Most don't
try to predict whether a startup will win, but to notice quickly
that it already is winning.  They care what the market thinks of
you and what other VCs think of you, and they can't judge those
just from meeting you.Because they're investing in things that (a) change fast and (b)
they don't understand, a lot of investors will reject you in a way
that can later be claimed not to have been a rejection.  Unless you
know this world, you may not even realize you've been rejected.
Here's a VC saying no:

  We're really excited about your project, and we want to keep in
  close touch as you develop it further.

Translated into more straightforward language, this means: We're
not investing in you, but we may change our minds if it looks like
you're taking off.  Sometimes they're more candid and say explicitly
that they need to "see some traction."  They'll invest in you if
you start to get lots of users.  But so would any VC.  So all they're
saying is that you're still at square 1.Here's a test for deciding whether a VC's response was yes or no.
Look down at your hands.  Are you holding a termsheet?22. You need investors.Some founders say "Who needs investors?"  Empirically the answer
seems to be: everyone who wants to succeed.  Practically every
successful startup takes outside investment at some point.Why? What the people who think they don't need investors forget is
that they will have competitors.  The question is not whether you
need outside investment, but whether it could help you at all.
If the answer is yes, and you don't take investment, then competitors
who do will have an advantage over you.  And in the startup world
a little advantage can expand into a lot.Mike Moritz famously said that he invested in Yahoo because he
thought they had a few weeks' lead over their competitors.  That
may not have mattered quite so much as he thought, because Google
came along three years later and kicked Yahoo's ass.  But there is
something in what he said.  Sometimes a small lead can grow into
the yes half of a binary choice.Maybe as it gets cheaper to start a startup, it will start to be
possible to succeed in a competitive market without outside funding.  
There are certainly
costs to raising money.  But as of this writing the empirical
evidence says it's a net win.23. Investors like it when you don't need them.A lot of founders approach investors as if they needed their
permission to start a company—as if it were like getting into
college.  But you don't need investors to start most companies;
they just make it easier.And in fact, investors greatly prefer it if you don't need them.
What excites them, both consciously and unconsciously, is the sort
of startup that approaches them saying "the train's leaving the
station; are you in or out?" not the one saying "please can we have
some money to start a company?"Most investors are "bottoms" in the sense that the startups they
like most are those that are rough with them.  When Google stuck
Kleiner and Sequoia with a $75 million premoney valuation, their
reaction was probably "Ouch! That feels so good." And they were
right, weren't they?  That deal probably made them more than any
other they've done.The thing is, VCs are pretty good at reading people.  So don't try
to act tough with them unless you really are the next Google, or
they'll see through you in a second.  Instead of acting tough, what
most startups should do is simply always have a backup plan.  Always
have some alternative plan for getting started if any given investor
says no.  Having one is the best insurance against needing one.So you shouldn't start a startup that's expensive to start, because
then you'll be at the mercy of investors.  If you ultimately want
to do something that will cost a lot, start by doing a cheaper
subset of it, and expand your ambitions when and if you raise more
money.Apparently the most likely animals to be left alive after a nuclear
war are cockroaches, because they're so hard to kill.  That's what
you want to be as a startup, initially.  Instead of a beautiful
but fragile flower that needs to have its stem in a plastic tube
to support itself, better to be small, ugly, and indestructible.Notes[1]
I may be underestimating VCs.  They may play some behind the scenes 
role in IPOs, which you ultimately need if you want to create a silicon 
valley.[2]
A few VCs have an email address you can send your business
plan to, but the number of startups that get funded this way is
basically zero.  You should always get a personal introduction—and 
to a partner, not an associate.[3]
Several people have told us that the most valuable thing about 
startup school 
was that they got to see famous startup founders and realized
they were just ordinary guys.  Though we're happy to provide this
service, this is not generally the way we pitch startup school to
potential speakers.[4]
Actually this sounds to me like a VC who got buyer's remorse,
then used a technicality to get out of the deal.  But it's telling
that it even seemed a plausible excuse.Thanks to Sam Altman, Paul Buchheit, Hutch Fishman, and Robert 
Morris for reading drafts of
this, and to Kenneth King of ASES for inviting me to speak.Comment on this essay.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2007There are two different ways people judge you.  Sometimes judging
you correctly is the end goal.  But there's a second much more
common type of judgement where it isn't.  We tend to regard all
judgements of us as the first type.  We'd probably be happier if
we realized which are and which aren't.The first type of judgement, the type where judging you is the end
goal, include court cases, grades in classes, and most competitions.
Such judgements can of course be mistaken, but because the goal is
to judge you correctly, there's usually some kind of appeals process.
If you feel you've been misjudged, you can protest that you've been
treated unfairly.Nearly all the judgements made on children are of this type, so we
get into the habit early in life of thinking that all judgements
are.But in fact there is a second much larger class of judgements where
judging you is only a means to something else.  These include college
admissions, hiring and investment decisions, and of course the
judgements made in dating.  This kind of judgement is not really
about you.Put yourself in the position of someone selecting players for a
national team.  Suppose for the sake of simplicity that this is a
game with no positions, and that you have to select 20 players.
There will be a few stars who clearly should make the team, and
many players who clearly shouldn't.  The only place your judgement
makes a difference is in the borderline cases.  Suppose you screw
up and underestimate the 20th best player, causing him not to make
the team, and his place to be taken by the 21st best.  You've still
picked a good team.  If the players have the usual distribution of
ability, the 21st best player will be only slightly worse than the
20th best.  Probably the difference between them will be less than
the measurement error.The 20th best player may feel he has been misjudged.  But your goal
here wasn't to provide a service estimating people's ability.  It
was to pick a team, and if the difference between the 20th and 21st
best players is less than the measurement error, you've still done
that optimally.It's a false analogy even to use the word unfair to describe this
kind of misjudgement.  It's not aimed at producing a correct estimate
of any given individual, but at selecting a reasonably optimal set.One thing that leads us astray here is that the selector seems to
be in a position of power.  That makes him seem like a judge.  If
you regard someone judging you as a customer instead of a judge,
the expectation of fairness goes away.  The author of a good novel
wouldn't complain that readers were unfair for preferring a
potboiler with a racy cover.  Stupid, perhaps, but not unfair.Our early training and our self-centeredness combine to make us
believe that every judgement of us is about us.  In fact most aren't.
This is a rare case where being less self-centered will make people
more confident.  Once you realize how little most people judging
you care about judging you accurately—once you realize that because
of the normal distribution of most applicant pools, it matters least
to judge accurately in precisely the cases where judgement has the
most effect—you won't take rejection so personally.And curiously enough, taking rejection less personally may help you
to get rejected less often.  If you think someone judging you will
work hard to judge you correctly, you can afford to be passive.
But the more you realize that most judgements are greatly influenced
by random, extraneous factors—that most people judging you are
more like a fickle novel buyer than a wise and perceptive 
magistrate—the more you realize you can do things to influence the
outcome.One good place to apply this principle is in college applications.
Most high school students applying to college do it with the usual
child's mix of inferiority and self-centeredness: inferiority in
that they assume that admissions committees must be all-seeing;
self-centeredness in that they assume admissions committees care
enough about them to dig down into their application and figure out
whether they're good or not.  These combine to make applicants
passive in applying and hurt when they're rejected.  If college
applicants realized how quick and impersonal most selection processes
are, they'd make more effort to sell themselves, and take the outcome
less personally.Spanish TranslationRussian TranslationArabic Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2007A few days ago I suddenly realized Microsoft was dead.  I was talking
to a young startup founder about how Google was different from
Yahoo.  I said that Yahoo had been warped from the start by
their fear of Microsoft.  That was why they'd positioned themselves
as a "media company" instead of a technology company.  Then I looked
at his face and realized he didn't understand.  It was as if I'd
told him how much girls liked Barry Manilow in the mid
80s.  Barry who?Microsoft?  He didn't say anything, but I could tell he didn't quite
believe anyone would be frightened of them.Microsoft cast
a shadow over the software world for almost 20 years
starting in the late 80s.
I can remember when it was IBM before them.  I mostly ignored this
shadow.  I never used Microsoft software, so it only affected me
indirectly—for example, in the spam I got from botnets.  And
because I wasn't paying attention, I didn't notice when the shadow
disappeared.But it's gone now.  I can sense that.  No one is even afraid of
Microsoft anymore.  They still make a lot of money—so does IBM,
for that matter.  But they're not dangerous.When did Microsoft die, and of what?  I know they seemed dangerous
as late as 2001, because I wrote an essay then 
about how they were
less dangerous than they seemed.   I'd guess they were dead by 2005.
I know when we started Y Combinator we didn't worry about Microsoft
as competition for the startups we funded.  In fact, we've never
even invited them to the demo days we organize for startups to
present to investors.  We invite Yahoo and Google and some other
Internet companies, but we've never bothered to invite Microsoft.
Nor has anyone there ever even sent us an email.  They're in a
different world.What killed them?  Four things, I think, all of them occurring
simultaneously in the mid 2000s.The most obvious is Google.  There can only be one big man in town,
and they're clearly it.  Google is the most dangerous company
now by far, in both the good and bad senses of the word.  Microsoft
can at best limp along afterward.When did Google take the lead?  There will be a tendency to push
it back to their IPO in August 2004, but they weren't setting the
terms of the debate then.  I'd say they took the lead in
2005.  Gmail was one of the things that put them over the edge.
Gmail showed they could do more than search.Gmail also showed how much you could do with web-based software,
if you took advantage of what later came to be called "Ajax." And
that was the second cause of Microsoft's death: everyone can see the
desktop is over.  It now seems inevitable that applications will
live on the web—not just email, but everything, right up to
Photoshop.  Even Microsoft sees that now.Ironically, Microsoft unintentionally helped create Ajax.  The x
in Ajax is from the XMLHttpRequest object, which lets the browser
communicate with the server in the background while displaying a page.
(Originally the only way to communicate with the server was to 
ask for a new page.) XMLHttpRequest was created by Microsoft in the late 90s
because they needed it for Outlook.  What they didn't realize was
that it would be useful to a lot of other people too—in fact, to
anyone who wanted to make web apps work like desktop ones.The other critical component of Ajax is Javascript, the programming
language that runs in the browser.  Microsoft saw the danger of
Javascript and tried to keep it broken for as long as they could.
[1] 
But eventually the open source world won, by producing
Javascript libraries that grew over the brokenness of Explorer
the way a tree grows over barbed wire.The third cause of Microsoft's death was broadband Internet.  Anyone
who cares can have fast Internet access
now.  And the bigger the pipe to the server, the less you need the
desktop.The last nail in the coffin came, of all places, from Apple.  
Thanks to OS X, Apple has come back from the dead in a way
that is extremely rare in technology.
[2]
Their victory is so complete that I'm now surprised when I come across
a computer running Windows.  Nearly all the people we fund at Y
Combinator use Apple laptops.  It was the same in the audience at 
startup
school.  All the computer people use Macs or Linux now.  Windows is for
grandmas, like Macs used to be in the 90s.  So not only does the
desktop no longer matter, no one who cares about computers uses
Microsoft's anyway.And of course Apple has Microsoft on the run in music
too, with TV and phones on the way.I'm glad Microsoft is dead.  They were like Nero or 
Commodus—evil
in the way only inherited power can make you.  Because remember,
the Microsoft monopoly didn't begin with Microsoft.  They got it
from IBM.  The software business was overhung by a
monopoly from about the mid-1950s to about 2005.  For practically
its whole existence, that is.  One of the reasons "Web 2.0" has
such an air of euphoria about it is the feeling, conscious or not,
that this era of monopoly may finally be over.Of course, as a hacker I can't help thinking about how something
broken could be fixed.  Is there some way Microsoft could come back?
In principle, yes.  To see how, envision two things: (a) the amount
of cash Microsoft now has on hand, and (b) Larry and Sergey making
the rounds of all the search engines ten years ago trying to sell
the idea for Google for a million dollars, and being turned down
by everyone.The surprising fact is, brilliant hackers—dangerously brilliant
hackers—can be had very cheaply, by the standards of a
company as rich as Microsoft.  They can't 
hire smart people anymore,
but they could buy as many as they wanted for only an order of magnitude 
more. So if they wanted to be a contender
again, this is how they could do it:
 Buy all the good "Web 2.0" startups.  They could get substantially
    all of them for less than they'd have to pay for Facebook. Put them all in a building in Silicon Valley, surrounded by
    lead shielding to protect them from any contact with Redmond.

I feel safe suggesting this, because they'd never do it.  Microsoft's
biggest weakness is that they still don't realize how much they
suck.  They still think they can write software in house.  Maybe they
can, by the standards of the desktop world.  But that world ended
a few years ago.I already know what the reaction to this essay will be.  Half the
readers will say that Microsoft is still an enormously profitable
company, and that I should be more
careful about drawing conclusions based on what a few people think
in our insular little "Web 2.0" bubble.  The other half, the younger
half, will complain that this is old news.See also: Microsoft is Dead: the Cliffs NotesNotes[1]
It doesn't take a conscious effort to make software incompatible.
All you have to do is not work too hard at fixing bugs—which, if
you're a big company, you produce in copious quantities.  The
situation is analogous to the writing of "literary
theorists."  Most don't try to be obscure; they just don't make an
effort to be clear.  It wouldn't pay.[2]
In part because Steve Jobs got pushed out by John Sculley in
a way that's rare among technology companies.  If Apple's board
hadn't made that blunder, they wouldn't have had to bounce back.Portuguese TranslationSimplified Chinese TranslationKorean Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


March 2007(This essay is derived from talks at the 2007 
Startup School and the Berkeley CSUA.)We've now been doing Y Combinator long enough to have some data
about success rates.  Our first batch, in the summer of 2005, had
eight startups in it.  Of those eight, it now looks as if at least
four succeeded.  Three have been acquired: 
Reddit was a merger of
two, Reddit and Infogami, and a third was acquired that we can't
talk about yet.  Another from that batch was 
Loopt, which is doing
so well they could probably be acquired in about ten minutes if
they wanted to.So about half the founders from that first summer, less than two
years ago, are now rich, at least by their standards.  (One thing
you learn when you get rich is that there are many degrees of it.)I'm not ready to predict our success rate will stay as high as 50%.
That first batch could have been an anomaly.  But we should be able
to do better than the oft-quoted (and probably made
up) standard figure of 10%.  I'd feel safe aiming at 25%.Even the founders who fail don't seem to have such a bad time.  Of
those first eight startups, three are now probably dead.  In two
cases the founders just went on to do other things at the end of
the summer.   I don't think they were traumatized by the experience.
The closest to a traumatic failure was Kiko, whose founders kept
working on their startup for a whole year before being squashed by
Google Calendar.  But they ended up happy.  They sold their software
on eBay for a quarter of a million dollars.  After they paid back
their angel investors, they had about a year's salary each.  
[1]
Then they immediately went on to start a new and much more exciting
startup, Justin.TV.So here is an even more striking statistic: 0% of that first batch
had a terrible experience.  They had ups and downs, like every
startup, but I don't think any would have traded it for a job in a
cubicle.  And that statistic is probably not an anomaly.  Whatever
our long-term success rate ends up being, I think the rate of people
who wish they'd gotten a regular job will stay close to 0%.The big mystery to me is: why don't more people start startups?  If
nearly everyone who does it prefers it to a regular job, and a
significant percentage get rich, why doesn't everyone want to do
this?  A lot of people think we get thousands of applications for
each funding cycle.  In fact we usually only get several hundred.
Why don't more people apply?  And while it must seem to anyone
watching this world that startups are popping up like crazy, the
number is small compared to the number of people with the necessary
skills.  The great majority of programmers still go straight from
college to cubicle, and stay there.It seems like people are not acting in their own interest.  What's
going on?   Well, I can answer that.  Because of Y Combinator's
position at the very start of the venture funding process, we're
probably the world's leading experts on the psychology of people
who aren't sure if they want to start a company.There's nothing wrong with being unsure.  If you're a hacker thinking
about starting a startup and hesitating before taking the leap,
you're part of a grand tradition.  Larry and Sergey seem to have
felt the same before they started Google, and so did Jerry and Filo
before they started Yahoo.  In fact, I'd guess the most successful
startups are the ones started by uncertain hackers rather than
gung-ho business guys.We have some evidence to support this.  Several of the most successful
startups we've funded told us later that they only decided to apply
at the last moment.  Some decided only hours before the deadline.The way to deal with uncertainty is to analyze it into components.
Most people who are reluctant to do something have about eight
different reasons mixed together in their heads, and don't know
themselves which are biggest.  Some will be justified and some
bogus, but unless you know the relative proportion of each, you
don't know whether your overall uncertainty is mostly justified or
mostly bogus.So I'm going to list all the components of people's reluctance to
start startups, and explain which are real.  Then would-be founders
can use this as a checklist to examine their own feelings.I admit my goal is to increase your self-confidence.  But there are
two things different here from the usual confidence-building exercise.
One is that I'm motivated to be honest.  Most people in the
confidence-building business have already achieved their goal when
you buy the book or pay to attend the seminar where they tell you
how great you are.  Whereas if I encourage people to start startups
who shouldn't, I make my own life worse.  If I encourage too many
people to apply to Y Combinator, it just means more work for me,
because I have to read all the applications.The other thing that's going to be different is my approach.  Instead
of being positive, I'm going to be negative.  Instead of telling
you "come on, you can do it" I'm going to consider all the reasons
you aren't doing it, and show why most (but not all) should be
ignored.  We'll start with the one everyone's born with.1. Too youngA lot of people think they're too young to start a startup.  Many
are right.  The median age worldwide is about 27, so probably a
third of the population can truthfully say they're too young.What's too young?  One of our goals with Y Combinator was to discover
the lower bound on the age of startup founders.  It always seemed
to us that investors were too conservative here—that they wanted
to fund professors, when really they should be funding grad students
or even undergrads.The main thing we've discovered from pushing the edge of this
envelope is not where the edge is, but how fuzzy it is.  The outer
limit may be as low as 16.  We don't look beyond 18 because people
younger than that can't legally enter into contracts.  But the most
successful founder we've funded so far, Sam Altman, was 19 at the
time.Sam Altman, however, is an outlying data point.  When he was 19,
he seemed like he had a 40 year old inside him.  There are other
19 year olds who are 12 inside.There's a reason we have a distinct word "adult" for people over a
certain age.  There is a threshold you cross.  It's conventionally
fixed at 21, but different people cross it at greatly varying ages.
You're old enough to start a startup if you've crossed this threshold,
whatever your age.How do you tell?  There are a couple tests adults use.  I realized
these tests existed after meeting Sam Altman, actually.  I noticed
that I felt like I was talking to someone much older.  Afterward I
wondered, what am I even measuring?  What made him seem older?One test adults use is whether you still have the kid flake reflex.
When you're a little kid and you're asked to do something hard, you
can cry and say "I can't do it" and the adults will probably let
you off.  As a kid there's a magic button you can press by saying
"I'm just a kid" that will get you out of most difficult situations.
Whereas adults, by definition, are not allowed to flake.  They still
do, of course, but when they do they're ruthlessly pruned.The other way to tell an adult is by how they react to a challenge.
Someone who's not yet an adult will tend to respond to a challenge
from an adult in a way that acknowledges their dominance.  If an
adult says "that's a stupid idea," a kid will either crawl away
with his tail between his legs, or rebel.  But rebelling presumes
inferiority as much as submission.  The adult response to
"that's a stupid idea," is simply to look the other person in the
eye and say "Really?  Why do you think so?"There are a lot of adults who still react childishly to challenges,
of course.  What you don't often find are kids who react to challenges
like adults.  When you do, you've found an adult, whatever their
age.2. Too inexperiencedI once wrote that startup founders should be at least 23, and that
people should work for another company for a few years before
starting their own.  I no longer believe that, and what changed my
mind is the example of the startups we've funded.I still think 23 is a better age than 21.  But the best way to get
experience if you're 21 is to start a startup.  So, paradoxically,
if you're too inexperienced to start a startup, what you should do
is start one.  That's a way more efficient cure for inexperience
than a normal job.  In fact, getting a normal job may actually make
you less able to start a startup, by turning you into a tame animal
who thinks he needs an office to work in and a product manager to
tell him what software to write.What really convinced me of this was the Kikos.  They started a
startup right out of college.  Their inexperience caused them to
make a lot of mistakes.  But by the time we funded their second
startup, a year later, they had become extremely formidable.  They
were certainly not tame animals.  And there is no way they'd have
grown so much if they'd spent that year working at Microsoft, or
even Google.  They'd still have been diffident junior programmers.So now I'd advise people to go ahead and start startups right out
of college.  There's no better time to take risks than when you're
young.  Sure, you'll probably fail.  But even failure will get you
to the ultimate goal faster than getting a job.It worries me a bit to be saying this, because in effect we're
advising people to educate themselves by failing at our expense,
but it's the truth.3. Not determined enoughYou need a lot of determination to succeed as a startup founder.
It's probably the single best predictor of success.Some people may not be determined enough to make it.  It's
hard for me to say for sure, because I'm so determined that I can't
imagine what's going on in the heads of people who aren't.  But I
know they exist.Most hackers probably underestimate their determination.  I've seen
a lot become visibly more determined as they get used to running a 
startup.  I can think of
several we've funded who would have been delighted at first to be
bought for $2 million, but are now set on world domination.How can you tell if you're determined enough, when Larry and Sergey
themselves were unsure at first about starting a company?  I'm
guessing here, but I'd say the test is whether you're sufficiently
driven to work on your own projects.  Though they may have been
unsure whether they wanted to start a company, it doesn't seem as
if Larry and Sergey were meek little research assistants, obediently
doing their advisors' bidding.  They started projects of their own.4. Not smart enoughYou may need to be moderately smart to succeed as a startup founder.
But if you're worried about this, you're probably mistaken.  If
you're smart enough to worry that you might not be smart enough to
start a startup, you probably are.And in any case, starting a startup just doesn't require that much
intelligence.  Some startups do.  You have to be good at math to
write Mathematica.  But most companies do more mundane stuff where
the decisive factor is effort, not brains.  Silicon Valley can warp
your perspective on this, because there's a cult of smartness here.
People who aren't smart at least try to act that way.  But if you
think it takes a lot of intelligence to get rich, try spending a
couple days in some of the fancier bits of New York or LA.If you don't think you're smart enough to start a startup doing
something technically difficult, just write enterprise software.
Enterprise software companies aren't technology companies, they're
sales companies, and sales depends mostly on effort.5. Know nothing about businessThis is another variable whose coefficient should be zero.  You
don't need to know anything about business to start a startup.  The
initial focus should be the product.  All you need to know in this
phase is how to build things people want.  If you succeed, you'll
have to think about how to make money from it.  But this is so easy
you can pick it up on the fly.I get a fair amount of flak for telling founders just to make
something great and not worry too much about making money.  And yet
all the empirical evidence points that way: pretty much 100% of
startups that make something popular manage to make money from it.
And acquirers tell me privately that revenue is not what they buy
startups for, but their strategic value.  Which means, because they
made something people want.  Acquirers know the rule holds for them
too: if users love you, you can always make money from that somehow,
and if they don't, the cleverest business model in the world won't
save you.So why do so many people argue with me?  I think one reason is that
they hate the idea that a bunch of twenty year olds could get rich
from building something cool that doesn't make any money.  They
just don't want that to be possible.  But how possible it is doesn't
depend on how much they want it to be.For a while it annoyed me to hear myself described as some kind of
irresponsible pied piper, leading impressionable young hackers down
the road to ruin.  But now I realize this kind of controversy is a
sign of a good idea.The most valuable truths are the ones most people don't believe.
They're like undervalued stocks.  If you start with them, you'll
have the whole field to yourself.  So when you find an idea you
know is good but most people disagree with, you should not
merely ignore their objections, but push aggressively in that
direction.  In this case, that means you should seek out ideas that
would be popular but seem hard to make money from.We'll bet a seed round you can't make something popular that we
can't figure out how to make money from.6. No cofounderNot having a cofounder is a real problem.  A startup is too much
for one person to bear.  And though we differ from other investors
on a lot of questions, we all agree on this.  All investors, without
exception, are more likely to fund you with a cofounder than without.We've funded two single founders, but in both cases we suggested
their first priority should be to find a cofounder.  Both did.  But
we'd have preferred them to have cofounders before they applied.
It's not super hard to get a cofounder for a project that's just
been funded, and we'd rather have cofounders committed enough to
sign up for something super hard.If you don't have a cofounder, what should you do?  Get one.  It's
more important than anything else.  If there's no one where you
live who wants to start a startup with you, move where there are
people who do.  If no one wants to work with you on your current
idea, switch to an idea people want to work on.If you're still in school, you're surrounded by potential cofounders.
A few years out it gets harder to find them.  Not only do you have
a smaller pool to draw from, but most already have jobs, and perhaps
even families to support.  So if you had friends in college you
used to scheme about startups with, stay in touch with them as well
as you can.  That may help keep the dream alive.It's possible you could meet a cofounder through something like a
user's group or a conference.  But I wouldn't be too optimistic.
You need to work with someone to know whether you want them as a
cofounder.  
[2]The real lesson to draw from this is not how to find a cofounder,
but that you should start startups when you're young and there are
lots of them around.7. No ideaIn a sense, it's not a problem if you don't have a good idea, because
most startups change their idea anyway.  In the average Y Combinator
startup, I'd guess 70% of the idea is new at the end of the
first three months.  Sometimes it's 100%.In fact, we're so sure the founders are more important than the
initial idea that we're going to try something new this funding
cycle. We're going to let people apply with no idea at all.  If you
want, you can answer the question on the application form that asks
what you're going to do with "We have no idea."  If you seem really
good we'll accept you anyway.  We're confident we can sit down with
you and cook up some promising project.Really this just codifies what we do already.  We put little weight
on the idea.  We ask mainly out of politeness.  The kind of question
on the application form that we really care about is the one where
we ask what cool things you've made.  If what you've made is version
one of a promising startup, so much the better, but the main thing
we care about is whether you're good at making things.  Being lead
developer of a popular open source project counts almost as much.That solves the problem if you get funded by Y Combinator.  What
about in the general case?  Because in another sense, it is a problem
if you don't have an idea.  If you start a startup with no idea,
what do you do next?So here's the brief recipe for getting startup ideas.  Find something
that's missing in your own life, and supply that need—no matter
how specific to you it seems.  Steve Wozniak built himself a computer;
who knew so many other people would want them?  A need that's narrow
but genuine is a better starting point than one that's broad but
hypothetical.  So even if the problem is simply that you don't have
a date on Saturday night, if you can think of a way to fix that by
writing software, you're onto something, because a lot of other
people have the same problem.8. No room for more startupsA lot of people look at the ever-increasing number of startups and
think "this can't continue."  Implicit in their thinking is a
fallacy: that there is some limit on the number of startups there
could be.  But this is false.  No one claims there's any limit on
the number of people who can work for salary at 1000-person companies.
Why should there be any limit on the number who can work for equity
at 5-person companies? 
[3]Nearly everyone who works is satisfying some kind of need.  Breaking
up companies into smaller units doesn't make those needs go away.
Existing needs would probably get satisfied more efficiently by a
network of startups than by a few giant, hierarchical organizations,
but I don't think that would mean less opportunity, because satisfying
current needs would lead to more.  Certainly this tends to be the
case in individuals.  Nor is there anything wrong with that.  We
take for granted things that medieval kings would have considered
effeminate luxuries, like whole buildings heated to spring temperatures
year round.  And if things go well, our descendants will take for
granted things we would consider shockingly luxurious.  There is
no absolute standard for material wealth.  Health care is a component
of it, and that alone is a black hole.  For the foreseeable future,
people will want ever more material wealth, so there is no limit
to the amount of work available for companies, and for startups in
particular.Usually the limited-room fallacy is not expressed directly.  Usually
it's implicit in statements like "there are only so many startups
Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo can buy."  Maybe, though the list of
acquirers is a lot longer than that.  And whatever you think of
other acquirers, Google is not stupid.  The reason big companies
buy startups is that they've created something valuable.  And why
should there be any limit to the number of valuable startups companies
can acquire, any more than there is a limit to the amount of wealth
individual people want?  Maybe there would be practical limits on
the number of startups any one acquirer could assimilate, but if
there is value to be had, in the form of upside that founders are
willing to forgo in return for an immediate payment, acquirers will
evolve to consume it.  Markets are pretty smart that way.9. Family to supportThis one is real.  I wouldn't advise anyone with a family to start
a startup.  I'm not saying it's a bad idea, just that I don't want
to take responsibility for advising it.  I'm willing to take
responsibility for telling 22 year olds to start startups.  So what
if they fail?  They'll learn a lot, and that job at Microsoft will
still be waiting for them if they need it.  But I'm not prepared
to cross moms.What you can do, if you have a family and want to start a startup,
is start a consulting business you can then gradually turn into a
product business.  Empirically the chances of pulling that off seem
very small. You're never going to produce Google this way.  But at
least you'll never be without an income.Another way to decrease the risk is to join an existing startup
instead of starting your own.  Being one of the first employees of
a startup is a lot like being a founder, in both the good ways and
the bad.  You'll be roughly 1/n^2 founder, where n is your employee
number.As with the question of cofounders, the real lesson here is to start
startups when you're young.10. Independently wealthyThis is my excuse for not starting a startup.  Startups are stressful.
Why do it if you don't need the money?  For every "serial entrepreneur,"
there are probably twenty sane ones who think "Start another
company?  Are you crazy?"I've come close to starting new startups a couple times, but I
always pull back because I don't want four years of my life to be
consumed by random schleps.  I know this business well enough to
know you can't do it half-heartedly.  What makes a good startup
founder so dangerous is his willingness to endure infinite schleps.There is a bit of a problem with retirement, though.  Like a lot
of people, I like to work.  And one of the many weird little problems
you discover when you get rich is that a lot of the interesting
people you'd like to work with are not rich.  They need to work at
something that pays the bills.  Which means if you want to have
them as colleagues, you have to work at something that pays the
bills too, even though you don't need to.  I think this is what
drives a lot of serial entrepreneurs, actually.That's why I love working on Y Combinator so much.  It's an excuse
to work on something interesting with people I like.11.  Not ready for commitmentThis was my reason for not starting a startup for most of my twenties.
Like a lot of people that age, I valued freedom most of all.  I was
reluctant to do anything that required a commitment of more than a
few months.  Nor would I have wanted to do anything that completely
took over my life the way a startup does.  And that's fine.  If you
want to spend your time travelling around, or playing in a band,
or whatever, that's a perfectly legitimate reason not to start a
company.If you start a startup that succeeds, it's going to consume at least
three or four years.  (If it fails, you'll be done a lot quicker.)
So you shouldn't do it if you're not ready for commitments on that
scale.  Be aware, though, that if you get a regular job, you'll
probably end up working there for as long as a startup would take,
and you'll find you have much less spare time than you might expect.
So if you're ready to clip on that ID badge and go to that orientation
session, you may also be ready to start that startup.12.  Need for structureI'm told there are people who need structure in their lives.  This
seems to be a nice way of saying they need someone to tell them
what to do.  I believe such people exist.  There's plenty of empirical
evidence: armies, religious cults, and so on.  They may even be the
majority.If you're one of these people, you probably shouldn't start a
startup.  In fact, you probably shouldn't even go to work for one.
In a good startup, you don't get told what to do very much.  There
may be one person whose job title is CEO, but till the company has
about twelve people no one should be telling anyone what to do.
That's too inefficient.  Each person should just do what they need
to without anyone telling them.If that sounds like a recipe for chaos, think about a soccer team.
Eleven people manage to work together in quite complicated ways,
and yet only in occasional emergencies does anyone tell anyone else
what to do.  A reporter once asked David Beckham if there were any
language problems at Real Madrid, since the players were from about
eight different countries.  He said it was never an issue, because
everyone was so good they never had to talk.  They all just did the
right thing.How do you tell if you're independent-minded enough to start a
startup?  If you'd bristle at the suggestion that you aren't, then
you probably are.13. Fear of uncertaintyPerhaps some people are deterred from starting startups because
they don't like the uncertainty.  If you go to work for Microsoft,
you can predict fairly accurately what the next few years will be
like—all too accurately, in fact.  If you start a startup, anything
might happen.Well, if you're troubled by uncertainty, I can solve that problem
for you: if you start a startup, it will probably fail.  Seriously, 
though, this is not a bad way to think
about the whole experience.  Hope for the best, but expect the
worst.  In the worst case, it will at least be interesting.  In the
best case you might get rich.No one will blame you if the startup tanks, so long as you made a
serious effort.  There may once have been a time when employers
would regard that as a mark against you, but they wouldn't now.  I
asked managers at big companies, and they all said they'd prefer
to hire someone who'd tried to start a startup and failed over
someone who'd spent the same time working at a big company.Nor will investors hold it against you, as long as you didn't fail
out of laziness or incurable stupidity.   I'm told there's a lot
of stigma attached to failing in other places—in Europe, for
example.  Not here.  In America, companies, like practically
everything else, are disposable.14. Don't realize what you're avoidingOne reason people who've been out in the world for a year or two
make better founders than people straight from college is that they
know what they're avoiding.  If their startup fails, they'll have
to get a job, and they know how much jobs suck.If you've had summer jobs in college, you may think you know what
jobs are like, but you probably don't.  Summer jobs at technology
companies are not real jobs.  If you get a summer job as a waiter,
that's a real job.  Then you have to carry your weight.  But software
companies don't hire students for the summer as a source of cheap
labor.  They do it in the hope of recruiting them when they graduate.
So while they're happy if you produce, they don't expect you to.That will change if you get a real job after you graduate.  Then
you'll have to earn your keep.  And since most of what big companies
do is boring, you're going to have to work on boring stuff.  Easy,
compared to college, but boring.  At first it may seem cool to get
paid for doing easy stuff, after paying to do hard stuff in college.
But that wears off after a few months.  Eventually it gets demoralizing
to work on dumb stuff, even if it's easy and you get paid a lot.And that's not the worst of it.  The thing that really sucks about
having a regular job is the expectation that you're supposed to be
there at certain times.  Even Google is afflicted with this,
apparently.  And what this means, as everyone who's had a regular
job can tell you, is that there are going to be times when you have
absolutely no desire to work on anything, and you're going to have
to go to work anyway and sit in front of your screen and pretend
to.  To someone who likes work, as most good hackers do, this is
torture.In a startup, you skip all that.  There's no concept of office hours
in most startups.  Work and life just get mixed together.  But the
good thing about that is that no one minds if you have a life at
work.  In a startup you can do whatever you want most of the time.
If you're a founder, what you want to do most of the time is work.
But you never have to pretend to.If you took a nap in your office in a big company, it would seem
unprofessional.  But if you're starting a startup and you fall
asleep in the middle of the day, your cofounders will just assume
you were tired.15. Parents want you to be a doctorA significant number of would-be startup founders are probably
dissuaded from doing it by their parents.  I'm not going to say you
shouldn't listen to them.  Families are entitled to their own
traditions, and who am I to argue with them?  But I will give you
a couple reasons why a safe career might not be what your parents
really want for you.One is that parents tend to be more conservative for their kids
than they would be for themselves.  This is actually a rational
response to their situation.  Parents end up sharing more of their
kids' ill fortune than good fortune.  Most parents don't mind this;
it's part of the job; but it does tend to make them excessively
conservative.  And erring on the side of conservatism is still
erring.  In almost everything, reward is proportionate to risk.  So
by protecting their kids from risk, parents are, without realizing
it, also protecting them from rewards.  If they saw that, they'd
want you to take more risks.The other reason parents may be mistaken is that, like generals,
they're always fighting the last war.  If they want you to be a
doctor, odds are it's not just because they want you to help the
sick, but also because it's a prestigious and lucrative career.
[4]
But not so lucrative or prestigious as it was when their
opinions were formed.  When I was a kid in the seventies, a doctor
was the thing to be.  There was a sort of golden triangle involving
doctors, Mercedes 450SLs, and tennis.  All three vertices now seem
pretty dated.The parents who want you to be a doctor may simply not realize how
much things have changed.  Would they be that unhappy if you were
Steve Jobs instead?  So I think the way to deal with your parents'
opinions about what you should do is to treat them like feature
requests.  Even if your only goal is to please them, the way to do
that is not simply to give them what they ask for.  Instead think
about why they're asking for something, and see if there's a better
way to give them what they need.16.  A job is the defaultThis leads us to the last and probably most powerful reason people
get regular jobs: it's the default thing to do.  Defaults are
enormously powerful, precisely because they operate without any
conscious choice.To almost everyone except criminals, it seems an axiom that if you
need money, you should get a job.  Actually this tradition is not
much more than a hundred years old.  Before that, the default way
to make a living was by farming.  It's a bad plan to treat something
only a hundred years old as an axiom.  By historical standards,
that's something that's changing pretty rapidly.We may be seeing another such change right now.  I've read a lot
of economic history, and I understand the startup world pretty well,
and it now seems to me fairly likely that we're seeing the beginning
of a change like the one from farming to manufacturing.And you know what?  If you'd been around when that change began
(around 1000 in Europe) it would have seemed to nearly everyone
that running off to the city to make your fortune was a crazy thing
to do.  Though serfs were in principle forbidden to leave their
manors, it can't have been that hard to run away to a city.  There
were no guards patrolling the perimeter of the village.  What
prevented most serfs from leaving was that it seemed insanely risky.
Leave one's plot of land?  Leave the people you'd spent your whole
life with, to live in a giant city of three or four thousand complete
strangers?  How would you live?  How would you get food, if you
didn't grow it?Frightening as it seemed to them, it's now the default with us to
live by our wits.  So if it seems risky to you to start a startup,
think how risky it once seemed to your ancestors to live as we do
now.  Oddly enough, the people who know this best are the very ones
trying to get you to stick to the old model.  How can Larry and
Sergey say you should come work as their employee, when they didn't
get jobs themselves?Now we look back on medieval peasants and wonder how they stood it.
How grim it must have been to till the same fields your whole life
with no hope of anything better, under the thumb of lords and priests
you had to give all your surplus to and acknowledge as your masters.
I wouldn't be surprised if one day people look back on what we
consider a normal job in the same way.  How grim it would be to
commute every day to a cubicle in some soulless office complex, and
be told what to do by someone you had to acknowledge as a boss—someone 
who could call you into their office and say "take a seat,"
and you'd sit!  Imagine having to ask permission to release
software to users.  Imagine being sad on Sunday afternoons because
the weekend was almost over, and tomorrow you'd have to get up and
go to work.  How did they stand it?It's exciting to think we may be on the cusp of another shift like
the one from farming to manufacturing.  That's why I care about
startups.  Startups aren't interesting just because they're a way
to make a lot of money.  I couldn't care less about other ways to
do that, like speculating in securities.  At most those are interesting
the way puzzles are.  There's more going on with startups.  They
may represent one of those rare, historic shifts in the way 
wealth is created.That's ultimately what drives us to work on Y Combinator.  We want
to make money, if only so we don't have to stop doing it, but that's
not the main goal.  There have only been a handful of these great
economic shifts in human history.  It would be an amazing hack to
make one happen faster.Notes[1]
The only people who lost were us.  The angels had convertible
debt, so they had first claim on the proceeds of the auction. Y
Combinator only got 38 cents on the dollar.[2]
The best kind of organization for that might be an open source
project, but those don't involve a lot of face to face meetings.
Maybe it would be worth starting one that did.[3]
There need to be some number of big companies to acquire the
startups, so the number of big companies couldn't decrease to zero.[4]
Thought experiment: If doctors did the same work, but as
impoverished outcasts, which parents would still want their kids
to be doctors?Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston, and Robert
Morris for reading drafts of this, to the founders of Zenter
for letting me use their web-based PowerPoint killer even though 
it isn't launched yet, and to Ming-Hay Luk
of the Berkeley CSUA for inviting me to speak.Comment on this essay.Russian TranslationJapanese TranslationKorean Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

February 2007A few days ago I finally figured out something I've wondered about
for 25 years: the relationship between wisdom and intelligence.
Anyone can see they're not the same by the number of people who are
smart, but not very wise.  And yet intelligence and wisdom do seem
related.  How?What is wisdom?  I'd say it's knowing what to do in a lot of
situations.  I'm not trying to make a deep point here about the
true nature of wisdom, just to figure out how we use the word.  A
wise person is someone who usually knows the right thing to do.And yet isn't being smart also knowing what to do in certain
situations?  For example, knowing what to do when the teacher tells
your elementary school class to add all the numbers from 1 to 100?
[1]Some say wisdom and intelligence apply to different types of
problems—wisdom to human problems and intelligence to abstract
ones.  But that isn't true.  Some wisdom has nothing to do with
people: for example, the wisdom of the engineer who knows certain
structures are less prone to failure than others.  And certainly
smart people can find clever solutions to human problems as well
as abstract ones. 
[2]Another popular explanation is that wisdom comes from experience
while intelligence is innate.  But people are not simply wise in
proportion to how much experience they have.  Other things must
contribute to wisdom besides experience, and some may be innate: a
reflective disposition, for example.Neither of the conventional explanations of the difference between
wisdom and intelligence stands up to scrutiny.  So what is the
difference?  If we look at how people use the words "wise" and
"smart," what they seem to mean is different shapes of performance.Curve"Wise" and "smart" are both ways of saying someone knows what to
do.  The difference is that "wise" means one has a high average
outcome across all situations, and "smart" means one does spectacularly
well in a few.  That is, if you had a graph in which the x axis
represented situations and the y axis the outcome, the graph of the
wise person would be high overall, and the graph of the smart person
would have high peaks.The distinction is similar to the rule that one should judge talent
at its best and character at its worst.  Except you judge intelligence
at its best, and wisdom by its average.  That's how the two are
related: they're the two different senses in which the same curve
can be high.So a wise person knows what to do in most situations, while a smart
person knows what to do in situations where few others could.  We
need to add one more qualification: we should ignore cases where
someone knows what to do because they have inside information. 
[3]
But aside from that, I don't think we can get much more specific
without starting to be mistaken.Nor do we need to.  Simple as it is, this explanation predicts, or
at least accords with, both of the conventional stories about the
distinction between wisdom and intelligence.  Human problems are
the most common type, so being good at solving those is key in
achieving a high average outcome.   And it seems natural that a
high average outcome depends mostly on experience, but that dramatic
peaks can only be achieved by people with certain rare, innate
qualities; nearly anyone can learn to be a good swimmer, but to be
an Olympic swimmer you need a certain body type.This explanation also suggests why wisdom is such an elusive concept:
there's no such thing.  "Wise" means something—that one is
on average good at making the right choice.  But giving the name
"wisdom" to the supposed quality that enables one to do that doesn't
mean such a thing exists.  To the extent "wisdom" means anything,
it refers to a grab-bag of qualities as various as self-discipline,
experience, and empathy.  
[4]Likewise, though "intelligent" means something, we're asking for
trouble if we insist on looking for a single thing called "intelligence."
And whatever its components, they're not all innate.  We use the
word "intelligent" as an indication of ability: a smart person can
grasp things few others could.  It does seem likely there's some
inborn predisposition to intelligence (and wisdom too), but this
predisposition is not itself intelligence.One reason we tend to think of intelligence as inborn is that people
trying to measure it have concentrated on the aspects of it that
are most measurable.  A quality that's inborn will obviously be
more convenient to work with than one that's influenced by experience,
and thus might vary in the course of a study.  The problem comes
when we drag the word "intelligence" over onto what they're measuring.
If they're measuring something inborn, they can't be measuring
intelligence.  Three year olds aren't smart.   When we describe one
as smart, it's shorthand for "smarter than other three year olds."SplitPerhaps it's a technicality to point out that a predisposition to
intelligence is not the same as intelligence.  But it's an important
technicality, because it reminds us that we can become smarter,
just as we can become wiser.The alarming thing is that we may have to choose between the two.If wisdom and intelligence are the average and peaks of the same
curve, then they converge as the number of points on the curve
decreases.  If there's just one point, they're identical: the average
and maximum are the same.  But as the number of points increases,
wisdom and intelligence diverge.  And historically the number of
points on the curve seems to have been increasing: our ability is
tested in an ever wider range of situations.In the time of Confucius and Socrates, people seem to have regarded
wisdom, learning, and intelligence as more closely related than we
do.  Distinguishing between "wise" and "smart" is a modern habit.
[5]
And the reason we do is that they've been diverging.  As knowledge
gets more specialized, there are more points on the curve, and the
distinction between the spikes and the average becomes sharper,
like a digital image rendered with more pixels.One consequence is that some old recipes may have become obsolete.
At the very least we have to go back and figure out if they were
really recipes for wisdom or intelligence.  But the really striking
change, as intelligence and wisdom drift apart, is that we may have
to decide which we prefer.  We may not be able to optimize for both
simultaneously.Society seems to have voted for intelligence.  We no longer admire
the sage—not the way people did two thousand years ago.  Now
we admire the genius.  Because in fact the distinction we began
with has a rather brutal converse: just as you can be smart without
being very wise, you can be wise without being very smart.  That
doesn't sound especially admirable.  That gets you James Bond, who
knows what to do in a lot of situations, but has to rely on Q for
the ones involving math.Intelligence and wisdom are obviously not mutually exclusive.  In
fact, a high average may help support high peaks.  But there are
reasons to believe that at some point you have to choose between
them.  One is the example of very smart people, who are so often
unwise that in popular culture this now seems to be regarded as the
rule rather than the exception.  Perhaps the absent-minded professor
is wise in his way, or wiser than he seems, but he's not wise in
the way Confucius or Socrates wanted people to be. 
[6]NewFor both Confucius and Socrates, wisdom, virtue, and happiness were
necessarily related.  The wise man was someone who knew what the
right choice was and always made it; to be the right choice, it had
to be morally right; he was therefore always happy, knowing he'd
done the best he could.  I can't think of many ancient philosophers
who would have disagreed with that, so far as it goes."The superior man is always happy; the small man sad," said Confucius.
[7]Whereas a few years ago I read an interview with a mathematician
who said that most nights he went to bed discontented, feeling he
hadn't made enough progress.  
[8]
The Chinese and Greek words we
translate as "happy" didn't mean exactly what we do by it, but
there's enough overlap that this remark contradicts them.Is the mathematician a small man because he's discontented?  No;
he's just doing a kind of work that wasn't very common in Confucius's
day.Human knowledge seems to grow fractally.  Time after time, something
that seemed a small and uninteresting area—experimental error,
even—turns out, when examined up close, to have as much in
it as all knowledge up to that point.  Several of the fractal buds
that have exploded since ancient times involve inventing and
discovering new things.  Math, for example, used to be something a
handful of people did part-time.  Now it's the career of thousands.
And in work that involves making new things, some old rules don't
apply.Recently I've spent some time advising people, and there I find the
ancient rule still works: try to understand the situation as well
as you can, give the best advice you can based on your experience,
and then don't worry about it, knowing you did all you could.  But
I don't have anything like this serenity when I'm writing an essay.
Then I'm worried.  What if I run out of ideas?  And when I'm writing,
four nights out of five I go to bed discontented, feeling I didn't
get enough done.Advising people and writing are fundamentally different types of
work.  When people come to you with a problem and you have to figure
out the right thing to do, you don't (usually) have to invent
anything.  You just weigh the alternatives and try to judge which
is the prudent choice.  But prudence can't tell me what sentence
to write next.  The search space is too big.Someone like a judge or a military officer can in much of his work
be guided by duty, but duty is no guide in making things.  Makers
depend on something more precarious: inspiration.  And like most
people who lead a precarious existence, they tend to be worried,
not contented.  In that respect they're more like the small man of
Confucius's day, always one bad harvest (or ruler) away from
starvation. Except instead of being at the mercy of weather and
officials, they're at the mercy of their own imagination.LimitsTo me it was a relief just to realize it might be ok to be discontented.
The idea that a successful person should be happy has thousands of
years of momentum behind it.  If I was any good, why didn't I have
the easy confidence winners are supposed to have?  But that, I now
believe, is like a runner asking "If I'm such a good athlete, why
do I feel so tired?" Good runners still get tired; they just get
tired at higher speeds.People whose work is to invent or discover things are in the same
position as the runner.  There's no way for them to do the best
they can, because there's no limit to what they could do.  The
closest you can come is to compare yourself to other people.  But
the better you do, the less this matters.  An undergrad who gets
something published feels like a star.  But for someone at the top
of the field, what's the test of doing well?  Runners can at least
compare themselves to others doing exactly the same thing; if you
win an Olympic gold medal, you can be fairly content, even if you
think you could have run a bit faster.  But what is a novelist to
do?Whereas if you're doing the kind of work in which problems are
presented to you and you have to choose between several alternatives,
there's an upper bound on your performance: choosing the best every
time.  In ancient societies, nearly all work seems to have been of
this type.  The peasant had to decide whether a garment was worth
mending, and the king whether or not to invade his neighbor, but
neither was expected to invent anything.  In principle they could
have; the king could have invented firearms, then invaded his
neighbor.  But in practice innovations were so rare that they weren't
expected of you, any more than goalkeepers are expected to score
goals. 
[9]
In practice, it seemed as if there was a correct decision
in every situation, and if you made it you'd done your job perfectly,
just as a goalkeeper who prevents the other team from scoring is
considered to have played a perfect game.In this world, wisdom seemed paramount.  
[10]
Even now, most people
do work in which problems are put before them and they have to
choose the best alternative.  But as knowledge has grown more
specialized, there are more and more types of work in which people
have to make up new things, and in which performance is therefore
unbounded.  Intelligence has become increasingly important relative
to wisdom because there is more room for spikes.RecipesAnother sign we may have to choose between intelligence and wisdom
is how different their recipes are.  Wisdom seems to come largely
from curing childish qualities, and intelligence largely from
cultivating them.Recipes for wisdom, particularly ancient ones, tend to have a
remedial character.  To achieve wisdom one must cut away all the
debris that fills one's head on emergence from childhood, leaving
only the important stuff.  Both self-control and experience have
this effect: to eliminate the random biases that come from your own
nature and from the circumstances of your upbringing respectively.
That's not all wisdom is, but it's a large part of it.  Much of
what's in the sage's head is also in the head of every twelve year
old.  The difference is that in the head of the twelve year old
it's mixed together with a lot of random junk.The path to intelligence seems to be through working on hard problems.
You develop intelligence as you might develop muscles, through
exercise.  But there can't be too much compulsion here.  No amount
of discipline can replace genuine curiosity.  So cultivating
intelligence seems to be a matter of identifying some bias in one's
character—some tendency to be interested in certain types of
things—and nurturing it.  Instead of obliterating your
idiosyncrasies in an effort to make yourself a neutral vessel for
the truth, you select one and try to grow it from a seedling into
a tree.The wise are all much alike in their wisdom, but very smart people
tend to be smart in distinctive ways.Most of our educational traditions aim at wisdom. So perhaps one
reason schools work badly is that they're trying to make intelligence
using recipes for wisdom.  Most recipes for wisdom have an element
of subjection.  At the very least, you're supposed to do what the
teacher says.  The more extreme recipes aim to break down your
individuality the way basic training does.  But that's not the route
to intelligence.  Whereas wisdom comes through humility, it may
actually help, in cultivating intelligence, to have a mistakenly
high opinion of your abilities, because that encourages you to keep
working.  Ideally till you realize how mistaken you were.(The reason it's hard to learn new skills late in life is not just
that one's brain is less malleable.  Another probably even worse
obstacle is that one has higher standards.)I realize we're on dangerous ground here.  I'm not proposing the
primary goal of education should be to increase students' "self-esteem."
That just breeds laziness.  And in any case, it doesn't really fool
the kids, not the smart ones.  They can tell at a young age that a
contest where everyone wins is a fraud.A teacher has to walk a narrow path: you want to encourage kids to
come up with things on their own, but you can't simply applaud
everything they produce.  You have to be a good audience: appreciative,
but not too easily impressed.  And that's a lot of work.  You have
to have a good enough grasp of kids' capacities at different ages
to know when to be surprised.That's the opposite of traditional recipes for education.  Traditionally
the student is the audience, not the teacher; the student's job is
not to invent, but to absorb some prescribed body of material.  (The
use of the term "recitation" for sections in some colleges is a
fossil of this.) The problem with these old traditions is that
they're too much influenced by recipes for wisdom.DifferentI deliberately gave this essay a provocative title; of course it's
worth being wise.  But I think it's important to understand the
relationship between intelligence and wisdom, and particularly what
seems to be the growing gap between them.  That way we can avoid
applying rules and standards to intelligence that are really meant
for wisdom.  These two senses of "knowing what to do" are more
different than most people realize.  The path to wisdom is through
discipline, and the path to intelligence through carefully selected
self-indulgence.  Wisdom is universal, and intelligence idiosyncratic.
And while wisdom yields calmness, intelligence much of the time
leads to discontentment.That's particularly worth remembering.  A physicist friend recently
told me half his department was on Prozac.  Perhaps if we acknowledge
that some amount of frustration is inevitable in certain kinds
of work, we can mitigate its effects.  Perhaps we can box it up and
put it away some of the time, instead of letting it flow together
with everyday sadness to produce what seems an alarmingly large
pool.  At the very least, we can avoid being discontented about
being discontented.If you feel exhausted, it's not necessarily because there's something
wrong with you.  Maybe you're just running fast.Notes[1]
Gauss was supposedly asked this when he was 10.  Instead of
laboriously adding together the numbers like the other students,
he saw that they consisted of 50 pairs that each summed to 101 (100
+ 1, 99 + 2, etc), and that he could just multiply 101 by 50 to get
the answer, 5050.[2]
A variant is that intelligence is the ability to solve problems,
and wisdom the judgement to know how to use those solutions.   But
while this is certainly an important relationship between wisdom
and intelligence, it's not the distinction between them.  Wisdom
is useful in solving problems too, and intelligence can help in
deciding what to do with the solutions.[3]
In judging both intelligence and wisdom we have to factor out
some knowledge. People who know the combination of a safe will be
better at opening it than people who don't, but no one would say
that was a test of intelligence or wisdom.But knowledge overlaps with wisdom and probably also intelligence.
A knowledge of human nature is certainly part of wisdom.  So where
do we draw the line?Perhaps the solution is to discount knowledge that at some point
has a sharp drop in utility.  For example, understanding French
will help you in a large number of situations, but its value drops
sharply as soon as no one else involved knows French.  Whereas the
value of understanding vanity would decline more gradually.The knowledge whose utility drops sharply is the kind that has
little relation to other knowledge.  This includes mere conventions,
like languages and safe combinations, and also what we'd call
"random" facts, like movie stars' birthdays, or how to distinguish
1956 from 1957 Studebakers.[4]
People seeking some single thing called "wisdom" have been
fooled by grammar.  Wisdom is just knowing the right thing to do,
and there are a hundred and one different qualities that help in
that.  Some, like selflessness, might come from meditating in an
empty room, and others, like a knowledge of human nature, might
come from going to drunken parties.Perhaps realizing this will help dispel the cloud of semi-sacred
mystery that surrounds wisdom in so many people's eyes.  The mystery
comes mostly from looking for something that doesn't exist.  And
the reason there have historically been so many different schools
of thought about how to achieve wisdom is that they've focused on
different components of it.When I use the word "wisdom" in this essay, I mean no more than
whatever collection of qualities helps people make the right choice
in a wide variety of situations.[5]
Even in English, our sense of the word "intelligence" is
surprisingly recent.  Predecessors like "understanding" seem to
have had a broader meaning.[6]
There is of course some uncertainty about how closely the remarks
attributed to Confucius and Socrates resemble their actual opinions.
I'm using these names as we use the name "Homer," to mean the
hypothetical people who said the things attributed to them.[7]
Analects VII:36, Fung trans.Some translators use "calm" instead of "happy."  One source of
difficulty here is that present-day English speakers have a different
idea of happiness from many older societies.  Every language probably
has a word meaning "how one feels when things are going well," but
different cultures react differently when things go well.  We react
like children, with smiles and laughter.  But in a more reserved
society, or in one where life was tougher, the reaction might be a
quiet contentment.[8]
It may have been Andrew Wiles, but I'm not sure.  If anyone
remembers such an interview, I'd appreciate hearing from you.[9]
Confucius claimed proudly that he had never invented
anything—that he had simply passed on an accurate account of
ancient traditions.  [Analects VII:1] It's hard for us now to
appreciate how important a duty it must have been in preliterate
societies to remember and pass on the group's accumulated knowledge.
Even in Confucius's time it still seems to have been the first duty
of the scholar.[10]
The bias toward wisdom in ancient philosophy may be exaggerated
by the fact that, in both Greece and China, many of the first
philosophers (including Confucius and Plato) saw themselves as
teachers of administrators, and so thought disproportionately about
such matters.  The few people who did invent things, like storytellers,
must have seemed an outlying data point that could be ignored.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Sarah Harlin, Jessica Livingston,
and Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.Polish TranslationFrench TranslationRussian TranslationRussian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

January 2007(Foreword to Jessica Livingston's 
Founders at Work.)Apparently sprinters reach their highest speed right out of the
blocks, and spend the rest of the race slowing down.  The winners
slow down the least.  It's that way with most startups too.  The
earliest phase is usually the most productive.  That's when they
have the really big ideas.  Imagine what Apple was like when 100%
of its employees were either Steve Jobs or Steve Wozniak.The striking thing about this phase is that it's completely different
from most people's idea of what business is like.  If you looked
in people's heads (or stock photo collections) for images representing
"business," you'd get images of people dressed up in suits, groups
sitting around conference tables looking serious, Powerpoint
presentations, people producing thick reports for one another to
read.   Early stage startups are the exact opposite of this.  And
yet they're probably the most productive part of the whole economy.Why the disconnect?  I think there's a general principle at work
here: the less energy people expend on performance, the more they
expend on appearances to compensate.  More often than not the energy
they expend on seeming impressive makes their actual performance
worse.  A few years ago I read an article in which a car magazine
modified the "sports" model of some production car to get the fastest
possible standing quarter mile.  You know how they did it?  They
cut off all the crap the manufacturer had bolted onto the car to
make it look fast.Business is broken the same way that car was.  The effort that goes
into looking productive is not merely wasted, but actually makes
organizations less productive.  Suits, for example.  Suits do not
help people to think better.  I bet most executives at big companies
do their best thinking when they wake up on Sunday morning and go
downstairs in their bathrobe to make a cup of coffee.  That's when
you have ideas.  Just imagine what a company would be like if people
could think that well at work.  People do in startups, at least
some of the time.  (Half the time you're in a panic because your
servers are on fire, but the other half you're thinking as deeply
as most people only get to sitting alone on a Sunday morning.)Ditto for most of the other differences between startups and what
passes for productivity in big companies.  And yet conventional
ideas of professionalism have such an iron grip on our minds that
even startup founders are affected by them.  In our startup, when
outsiders came to visit we tried hard to seem "professional." We'd
clean up our offices, wear better clothes, try to arrange that a
lot of people were there during conventional office hours.  In fact,
programming didn't get done by well-dressed people at clean desks
during office hours.  It got done by badly dressed people (I was
notorious for programmming wearing just a towel) in offices strewn
with junk at 2 in the morning.  But no visitor would understand
that.  Not even investors, who are supposed to be able to recognize
real productivity when they see it.  Even we were affected by the
conventional wisdom.  We thought of ourselves as impostors, succeeding
despite being totally unprofessional.  It was as if we'd created a
Formula 1 car but felt sheepish because it didn't look like a car
was supposed to look.In the car world, there are at least some people who know that a
high performance car looks like a Formula 1 racecar, not a sedan
with giant rims and a fake spoiler bolted to the trunk.  Why not
in business?  Probably because startups are so small.  The really
dramatic growth happens when a startup only has three or four people,
so only three or four people see that, whereas tens of thousands
see business as it's practiced by Boeing or Philip Morris.This book can help fix that problem, by showing everyone what, till
now, only a handful people got to see: what happens in the first
year of a startup.  This is what real productivity looks like. This
is the Formula 1 racecar.  It looks weird, but it goes fast.Of course, big companies won't be able to do everything these
startups do.  In big companies there's always going to be more
politics, and less scope for individual decisions.  But seeing what
startups are really like will at least show other organizations
what to aim for.  The time may soon be coming when instead of
startups trying to seem more corporate, corporations will try to
seem more like startups.  That would be a good thing.Japanese
Translation
Founders at WorkThere can't be more than a couple thousand
people who know first-hand what happens in the first month of a
successful startup.   Jessica Livingston got them to tell us.  
So despite the interview format, this is
really a how-to book.  It is probably the single most valuable 
book a startup founder could read.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

December 2006I grew up believing that taste is just a matter of personal preference.
Each person has things they like, but no one's preferences are any
better than anyone else's.  There is no such thing as good taste.Like a lot of things I grew up believing, this turns out to be
false, and I'm going to try to explain why.One problem with saying there's no such thing as good taste is that
it also means there's no such thing as good art.  If there were
good art, then people who liked it would have better taste than
people who didn't.  So if you discard taste, you also have to discard
the idea of art being good, and artists being good at making it.It was pulling on that thread that unravelled my childhood faith
in relativism.  When you're trying to make things, taste becomes a
practical matter.  You have to decide what to do next.  Would it
make the painting better if I changed that part?  If there's no
such thing as better, it doesn't matter what you do.  In fact, it
doesn't matter if you paint at all.  You could just go out and buy
a ready-made blank canvas.  If there's no such thing as good, that
would be just as great an achievement as the ceiling of the Sistine
Chapel.  Less laborious, certainly, but if you can achieve the same
level of performance with less effort, surely that's more impressive,
not less.Yet that doesn't seem quite right, does it?AudienceI think the key to this puzzle is to remember that art has an
audience.  Art has a purpose, which is to interest its audience.
Good art (like good anything) is art that achieves its purpose
particularly well.  The meaning of "interest" can vary.  Some works
of art are meant to shock, and others to please; some are meant to
jump out at you, and others to sit quietly in the background. But
all art has to work on an audience, and—here's the critical 
point—members of the audience share things in common.For example, nearly all humans find human faces engaging.  It seems
to be wired into us.  Babies can recognize faces practically from
birth.  In fact, faces seem to have co-evolved with our interest
in them; the face is the body's billboard.  So all other things
being equal, a painting with faces in it will interest people more
than one without. 
[1]One reason it's easy to believe that taste is merely personal
preference is that, if it isn't, how do you pick out the people
with better taste?  There are billions of people, each with their
own opinion; on what grounds can you prefer one to another?
[2]But if audiences have a lot in common, you're not in a position of
having to choose one out of a random set of individual biases,
because the set isn't random.  All humans find faces 
engaging—practically by definition: face recognition is 
in our DNA.  And so
having a notion of good art, in the sense of art that does its job
well, doesn't require you to pick out a few individuals and label
their opinions as correct.  No matter who you pick, they'll find
faces engaging.Of course, space aliens probably wouldn't find human faces engaging.
But there might be other things they shared in common with us.  The
most likely source of examples is math.  I expect space aliens would
agree with us most of the time about which of two proofs was better.
Erdos thought so.  He called a maximally elegant proof one out of
God's book, and presumably God's book is universal.
[3]Once you start talking about audiences, you don't have to argue
simply that there are or aren't standards of taste.  Instead tastes
are a series of concentric rings, like ripples in a pond.  There
are some things that will appeal to you and your friends, others
that will appeal to most people your age, others that will appeal
to most humans, and perhaps others that would appeal to most sentient
beings (whatever that means).The picture is slightly more complicated than that, because in the
middle of the pond there are overlapping sets of ripples.  For
example, there might be things that appealed particularly to men,
or to people from a certain culture.If good art is art that interests its audience, then when you talk
about art being good, you also have to say for what audience.  So
is it meaningless to talk about art simply being good or bad?  No,
because one audience is the set of all possible humans.  I think
that's the audience people are implicitly talking about when they
say a work of art is good: they mean it would engage any human.
[4]And that is a meaningful test, because although, like any everyday
concept, "human" is fuzzy around the edges, there are a lot of
things practically all humans have in common.  In addition to our
interest in faces, there's something special about primary colors
for nearly all of us, because it's an artifact of the way our eyes
work.  Most humans will also find images of 3D objects engaging,
because that also seems to be built into our visual perception.
[5]
And beneath that there's edge-finding, which makes images
with definite shapes more engaging than mere blur.Humans have a lot more in common than this, of course.  My goal is
not to compile a complete list, just to show that there's some solid
ground here.  People's preferences aren't random.  So an artist
working on a painting and trying to decide whether to change some
part of it doesn't have to think "Why bother?  I might as well flip
a coin." Instead he can ask "What would make the painting more
interesting to people?"  And the reason you can't equal Michelangelo
by going out and buying a blank canvas is that the ceiling of the
Sistine Chapel is more interesting to people.A lot of philosophers have had a hard time believing it was possible
for there to be objective standards for art. It seemed obvious that
beauty, for example, was something that happened in the head of the observer,
not something that was a property of objects.  It was thus 
"subjective" rather than "objective."  But in fact if you narrow the
definition of beauty to something that works a certain way on
humans, and you observe how much humans have in common, it turns out
to be a property of objects after all.   You don't
have to choose between something being a property of the   
subject or the object if subjects all react similarly.
Being good art is thus a property of objects as much as, say, being
toxic to humans is: it's good art if it consistently affects humans 
in a certain way.ErrorSo could we figure out what the best art is by taking a vote?  After
all, if appealing to humans is the test, we should be able to just
ask them, right?Well, not quite.  For products of nature that might work.  I'd be
willing to eat the apple the world's population had voted most
delicious, and I'd probably be willing to visit the beach they voted
most beautiful, but having to look at the painting they voted the
best would be a crapshoot.Man-made stuff is different.  For one thing, artists, unlike apple
trees, often deliberately try to trick us.  Some tricks are quite
subtle.  For example, any work of art sets expectations by its level
of finish.  You don't expect photographic accuracy in something
that looks like a quick sketch.  So one widely used trick, especially
among illustrators, is to intentionally make a painting or drawing
look like it was done faster than it was.  The average person looks
at it and thinks: how amazingly skillful.  It's like saying something
clever in a conversation as if you'd thought of it on the spur of
the moment, when in fact you'd worked it out the day before.Another much less subtle influence is brand.  If you go to see the
Mona Lisa, you'll probably be disappointed, because it's hidden
behind a thick glass wall and surrounded by a frenzied crowd taking
pictures of themselves in front of it.  At best you can see it the
way you see a friend across the room at a crowded party.  The Louvre
might as well replace it with copy; no one would be able to tell.
And yet the Mona Lisa is a small, dark painting.  If you found
people who'd never seen an image of it and sent them to a museum
in which it was hanging among other paintings with a tag labelling
it as a portrait by an unknown fifteenth century artist, most would
walk by without giving it a second look.For the average person, brand dominates all other factors in the
judgement of art.  Seeing a painting they recognize from reproductions
is so overwhelming that their response to it as a painting is drowned
out.And then of course there are the tricks people play on themselves.
Most adults looking at art worry that if they don't like what they're
supposed to, they'll be thought uncultured.  This doesn't just
affect what they claim to like; they actually make themselves like
things they're supposed to.That's why you can't just take a vote.  Though appeal to people is
a meaningful test, in practice you can't measure it, just as you
can't find north using a compass with a magnet sitting next to it.
There are sources of error so powerful that if you take a vote, all
you're measuring is the error.We can, however, approach our goal from another direction, by using
ourselves as guinea pigs.  You're human.  If you want to know what
the basic human reaction to a piece of art would be, you can at
least approach that by getting rid of the sources of error in your
own judgements.For example, while anyone's reaction to a famous painting will be
warped at first by its fame, there are ways to decrease its effects.
One is to come back to the painting over and over.  After a few
days the fame wears off, and you can start to see it as a painting.
Another is to stand close.  A painting familiar from reproductions
looks more familiar from ten feet away; close in you see details
that get lost in reproductions, and which you're therefore seeing
for the first time.There are two main kinds of error that get in the way of seeing a
work of art: biases you bring from your own circumstances, and
tricks played by the artist.  Tricks are straightforward to correct
for. Merely being aware of them usually prevents them from working.
For example, when I was ten I used to be very impressed by airbrushed
lettering that looked like shiny metal.  But once you study how
it's done, you see that it's a pretty cheesy trick—one of the
sort that relies on pushing a few visual buttons really hard to
temporarily overwhelm the viewer.  It's like trying to convince
someone by shouting at them.The way not to be vulnerable to tricks is to explicitly seek out
and catalog them.  When you notice a whiff of dishonesty coming
from some kind of art, stop and figure out what's going on.  When
someone is obviously pandering to an audience that's easily fooled,
whether it's someone making shiny stuff to impress ten year olds,
or someone making conspicuously avant-garde stuff to impress would-be
intellectuals, learn how they do it.  Once you've seen enough
examples of specific types of tricks, you start to become a connoisseur
of trickery in general, just as professional magicians are.What counts as a trick?  Roughly, it's something done with contempt
for the audience.  For example, the guys designing Ferraris in the
1950s were probably designing cars that they themselves admired.
Whereas I suspect over at General Motors the marketing people are
telling the designers, "Most people who buy SUVs do it to seem
manly, not to drive off-road. So don't worry about the suspension;
just make that sucker as big and tough-looking as you can." 
[6]I think with some effort you can make yourself nearly immune to
tricks.  It's harder to escape the influence of your own circumstances,
but you can at least move in that direction.  The way to do it is
to travel widely, in both time and space.  If you go and see all
the different kinds of things people like in other cultures, and
learn about all the different things people have liked in the past,
you'll probably find it changes what you like.  I doubt you could
ever make yourself into a completely universal person, if only
because you can only travel in one direction in time.  But if you
find a work of art that would appeal equally to your friends, to
people in Nepal, and to the ancient Greeks, you're probably onto
something.My main point here is not how to have good taste, but that there
can even be such a thing.  And I think I've shown that.  There is
such a thing as good art. It's art that interests its human audience,
and since humans have a lot in common, what interests them is not
random.  Since there's such a thing as good art, there's
also such a thing as good taste, which is the ability to recognize
it.If we were talking about the taste of apples, I'd agree that taste
is just personal preference.  Some people like certain kinds of
apples and others like other kinds, but how can you say that one
is right and the other wrong? 
[7]The thing is, art isn't apples.  Art is man-made. It comes with a
lot of cultural baggage, and in addition the people who make it
often try to trick us.  Most people's judgement of art is dominated
by these extraneous factors; they're like someone trying to judge
the taste of apples in a dish made of equal parts apples and jalapeno
peppers.  All they're tasting is the peppers.  So it turns out you
can pick out some people and say that they have better taste than
others: they're the ones who actually taste art like apples.Or to put it more prosaically, they're the people who (a) are hard
to trick, and (b) don't just like whatever they grew up with.  If
you could find people who'd eliminated all such influences on their
judgement, you'd probably still see variation in what they liked.
But because humans have so much in common, you'd also find they
agreed on a lot.  They'd nearly all prefer the ceiling of the Sistine
Chapel to a blank canvas.Making ItI wrote this essay because I was tired of hearing "taste is subjective"
and wanted to kill it once and for all. Anyone who makes things
knows intuitively that's not true.  When you're trying to make art,
the temptation to be lazy is as great as in any other kind of work.
Of course it matters to do a good job.  And yet you can see how
great a hold "taste is subjective" has even in the art world by how
nervous it makes people to talk about art being good or bad.  Those
whose jobs require them to judge art, like curators, mostly resort
to euphemisms like "significant" or "important" or (getting dangerously
close) "realized." 
[8]I don't have any illusions that being able to talk about art being
good or bad will cause the people who talk about it to have anything
more useful to say.  Indeed, one of the reasons "taste is subjective"
found such a receptive audience is that, historically, the things
people have said about good taste have generally been such nonsense.It's not for the people who talk about art that I want to free the
idea of good art, but for those who 
make it.  Right now, ambitious
kids going to art school run smack into a brick wall.  They arrive
hoping one day to be as good as the famous artists they've seen in
books, and the first thing they learn is that the concept of good
has been retired.  Instead everyone is just supposed to explore
their own personal vision. 
[9]When I was in art school, we were looking one day at a slide of
some great fifteenth century painting, and one of the students asked
"Why don't artists paint like that now?" The room suddenly got
quiet.  Though rarely asked out loud, this question lurks uncomfortably
in the back of every art student's mind.  It was as if someone had
brought up the topic of lung cancer in a meeting within Philip
Morris."Well," the professor replied, "we're interested in different
questions now."  He was a pretty nice guy, but at the time I couldn't
help wishing I could send him back to fifteenth century Florence
to explain in person to Leonardo & Co. how we had moved beyond their
early, limited concept of art.  Just imagine that conversation.In fact, one of the reasons artists in fifteenth century Florence made
such great things was that they believed you could make great things.
[10]
They were intensely competitive and were always trying to outdo
one another, like mathematicians or physicists today—maybe like
anyone who has ever done anything really well.The idea that you could make great things was not just a useful
illusion.  They were actually right.  So the most important consequence
of realizing there can be good art is that it frees artists to try
to make it.  To the ambitious kids arriving at art school this year
hoping one day to make great things, I say: don't believe it when
they tell you this is a naive and outdated ambition.  There is such
a thing as good art, and if you try to make it, there are people
who will notice.Notes[1]
This is not to say, of course, that good paintings must
have faces in them, just that everyone's visual piano has that key
on it.  There are situations in which you want to avoid faces,
precisely because they attract so much attention.  But you can see
how universally faces work by their prevalence in
advertising.[2]
The other reason it's easy to believe is that it makes people
feel good.  To a kid, this idea is crack.  In every other respect
they're constantly being told that they have a lot to learn.  But
in this they're perfect.  Their opinion carries the same weight as
any adult's.  You should probably question anything you believed
as a kid that you'd want to believe this much.[3]
It's conceivable that the elegance of proofs is quantifiable,
in the sense that there may be some formal measure that turns out
to coincide with mathematicians' judgements.  Perhaps it would be
worth trying to make a formal language for proofs in which those
considered more elegant consistently came out shorter (perhaps after
being macroexpanded or compiled).[4]
Maybe it would be possible to make art that would appeal to
space aliens, but I'm not going to get into that because (a) it's
too hard to answer, and (b) I'm satisfied if I can establish that
good art is a meaningful idea for human audiences.[5]
If early abstract paintings seem more interesting than later
ones, it may be because the first abstract painters were trained
to paint from life, and their hands thus tended to make the kind
of gestures you use in representing physical things.  In effect
they were saying "scaramara" instead of "uebfgbsb."[6]
It's a bit more complicated, because sometimes artists
unconsciously use tricks by imitating art that does.[7]
I phrased this in terms of the taste of apples because if
people can see the apples, they can be fooled.  When I was a kid
most apples were a variety called Red Delicious that had been bred
to look appealing in stores, but which didn't taste very good.[8]
To be fair, curators are in a difficult position.  If they're
dealing with recent art, they have to include things in shows that
they think are bad.  That's because the test for what gets included
in shows is basically the market price, and for recent art that is
largely determined by successful businessmen and their wives.  So
it's not always intellectual dishonesty that makes curators and
dealers use neutral-sounding language.[9]
What happens in practice is that everyone gets really good at
talking about art.  As the art itself gets more random, the effort
that would have gone into the work goes instead into the intellectual
sounding theory behind it.  "My work represents an exploration of
gender and sexuality in an urban context," etc.  Different people
win at that game.[10]
There were several other reasons, including that Florence was
then the richest and most sophisticated city in the world, and that
they lived in a time before photography had (a) killed portraiture
as a source of income and (b) made brand the dominant factor in the
sale of art.Incidentally, I'm not saying that good art = fifteenth century
European art.  I'm not saying we should make what they made, but
that we should work like they worked.  There are fields now in which
many people work with the same energy and honesty that fifteenth
century artists did, but art is not one of them.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston, and Robert Morris 
for reading drafts of this, and to Paul Watson for permission to 
use the image at the top.Japanese TranslationSimplified Chinese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


October 2006In the Q & A period after a recent talk, someone asked what made
startups fail.  After standing there gaping for a few seconds I
realized this was kind of a trick question.  It's equivalent to
asking how to make a startup succeed — if you avoid every cause of
failure, you succeed — and that's too big a question to answer on
the fly.Afterwards I realized it could be helpful to look at the problem
from this direction.  If you have a list of all the things you
shouldn't do, you can turn that into a recipe for succeeding just
by negating.  And this form of list may be more useful in practice.
It's easier to catch yourself doing something you shouldn't than
always to remember to do something you should.
[1]In a sense there's just one mistake that kills startups: not making
something users want.  If you make something users want, you'll
probably be fine, whatever else you do or don't do.  And if you
don't make something users want, then you're dead, whatever else
you do or don't do.  So really this is a list of 18 things that
cause startups not to make something users want.  Nearly all failure
funnels through that.1. Single FounderHave you ever noticed how few successful startups were founded by
just one person?  Even companies you think of as having one founder,
like Oracle, usually turn out to have more.  It seems unlikely this
is a coincidence.What's wrong with having one founder?  To start with, it's a vote
of no confidence.  It probably means the founder couldn't talk any
of his friends into starting the company with him.  That's pretty
alarming, because his friends are the ones who know him best.But even if the founder's friends were all wrong and the company
is a good bet, he's still at a disadvantage.  Starting a startup
is too hard for one person.  Even if you could do all the work
yourself, you need colleagues to brainstorm with, to talk you out
of stupid decisions, and to cheer you up when things go wrong.The last one might be the most important.  The low points in a
startup are so low that few could bear them alone.  When you have
multiple founders, esprit de corps binds them together in a way
that seems to violate conservation laws.  Each thinks "I can't let
my friends down."  This is one of the most powerful forces in human
nature, and it's missing when there's just one founder.2. Bad LocationStartups prosper in some places and not others.  Silicon Valley
dominates, then Boston, then Seattle, Austin, Denver, and New York.  After
that there's not much.  Even in New York the number of startups per
capita is probably a 20th of what it is in Silicon Valley.  In towns
like Houston and Chicago and Detroit it's too small to measure.Why is the falloff so sharp?  Probably for the same reason it is
in other industries.  What's the sixth largest fashion center in
the US?  The sixth largest center for oil, or finance, or publishing?
Whatever they are they're probably so far from the top that it would
be misleading even to call them centers.It's an interesting question why cities 
become startup hubs, but
the reason startups prosper in them is probably the same as it is
for any industry: that's where the experts are.  Standards are
higher; people are more sympathetic to what you're doing; the kind
of people you want to hire want to live there; supporting industries
are there; the people you run into in chance meetings are in the
same business.  Who knows exactly how these factors combine to boost
startups in Silicon Valley and squish them in Detroit, but it's
clear they do from the number of startups per capita in each.3. Marginal NicheMost of the groups that apply to Y Combinator suffer from a common
problem: choosing a small, obscure niche in the hope of avoiding
competition.If you watch little kids playing sports, you notice that below a
certain age they're afraid of the ball.  When the ball comes near
them their instinct is to avoid it.  I didn't make a lot of catches
as an eight year old outfielder, because whenever a fly ball came
my way, I used to close my eyes and hold my glove up more for
protection than in the hope of catching it.Choosing a marginal project is the startup equivalent of my eight
year old strategy for dealing with fly balls.  If you make anything
good, you're going to have competitors, so you may as well face
that.  You can only avoid competition by avoiding good ideas.I think this shrinking from big problems is mostly unconscious.
It's not that people think of grand ideas but decide to pursue
smaller ones because they seem safer.  Your unconscious won't even
let you think of grand ideas.  So the solution may be to think about
ideas without involving yourself.  What would be a great idea for
someone else to do as a startup?4. Derivative IdeaMany of the applications we get are imitations of some existing
company.  That's one source of ideas, but not the best.  If you
look at the origins of successful startups, few were started in
imitation of some other startup.  Where did they get their ideas?
Usually from some specific, unsolved problem the founders identified.Our startup made software for making online stores.  When we started
it, there wasn't any; the few sites you could order from were
hand-made at great expense by web consultants.  We knew that if
online shopping ever took off, these sites would have to be generated
by software, so we wrote some.  Pretty straightforward.It seems like the best problems to solve are ones that affect you
personally.  Apple happened because Steve Wozniak wanted a computer,
Google because Larry and Sergey couldn't find stuff online, Hotmail
because Sabeer Bhatia and Jack Smith couldn't exchange email at
work.So instead of copying the Facebook, with some variation that the
Facebook rightly ignored, look for ideas from the other direction.
Instead of starting from companies and working back to the problems
they solved, look for problems and imagine the company that might
solve them. 
[2]
What do people complain about?  What do you wish there was?5. ObstinacyIn some fields the way to succeed is to have a vision of what you
want to achieve, and to hold true to it no matter what setbacks you
encounter.  Starting startups is not one of them.  The stick-to-your-vision
approach works for something like winning an Olympic gold medal,
where the problem is well-defined.  Startups are more like science,
where you need to follow the trail wherever it leads.So don't get too attached to your original plan, because it's
probably wrong.  Most successful startups end up doing something
different than they originally intended — often so different that
it doesn't even seem like the same company.  You have to be prepared
to see the better idea when it arrives.  And the hardest part of
that is often discarding your old idea.But openness to new ideas has to be tuned just right.  Switching
to a new idea every week will be equally fatal.  Is there some kind
of external test you can use?  One is to ask whether the ideas
represent some kind of progression.  If in each new idea you're
able to re-use most of what you built for the previous ones, then
you're probably in a process that converges.  Whereas if you keep
restarting from scratch, that's a bad sign.Fortunately there's someone you can ask for advice: your users.  If
you're thinking about turning in some new direction and your users
seem excited about it, it's probably a good bet.6. Hiring Bad ProgrammersI forgot to include this in the early versions of the list,
because nearly all the founders I know are programmers.  This is
not a serious problem for them.  They might accidentally hire someone
bad, but it's not going to kill the company.  In a pinch they can
do whatever's required themselves.But when I think about what killed most of the startups in the
e-commerce business back in the 90s, it was bad programmers.  A lot
of those companies were started by business guys who thought the
way startups worked was that you had some clever idea and then hired
programmers to implement it.  That's actually much harder than it
sounds — almost impossibly hard in fact — because business guys
can't tell which are the good programmers.  They don't even get a
shot at the best ones, because no one really good wants a job
implementing the vision of a business guy.In practice what happens is that the business guys choose people
they think are good programmers (it says here on his resume that
he's a Microsoft Certified Developer) but who aren't.  Then they're
mystified to find that their startup lumbers along like a World War
II bomber while their competitors scream past like jet fighters.
This kind of startup is in the same position as a big company,
but without the advantages.So how do you pick good programmers if you're not a programmer?  I
don't think there's an answer.  I was about to say you'd have to
find a good programmer to help you hire people.  But if you can't
recognize good programmers, how would you even do that?7. Choosing the Wrong PlatformA related problem (since it tends to be done by bad programmers)
is choosing the wrong platform.  For example, I think a lot of
startups during the Bubble killed themselves by deciding to build
server-based applications on Windows.  Hotmail was still running
on FreeBSD for years after Microsoft bought it, presumably because
Windows couldn't handle the load.  If Hotmail's founders
had chosen to use Windows, they would have been swamped.PayPal only just dodged this bullet.  After they merged with X.com,
the new CEO wanted to switch to Windows — even after PayPal cofounder
Max Levchin showed that their software scaled only 1% as well on
Windows as Unix.  Fortunately for PayPal they switched CEOs instead.Platform is a vague word.  It could mean an operating system, or a
programming language, or a "framework" built on top of a programming
language.  It implies something that both supports and limits, like
the foundation of a house.The scary thing about platforms is that there are always some that
seem to outsiders to be fine, responsible choices and yet, like
Windows in the 90s, will destroy you if you choose them.  Java
applets were probably the most spectacular example.  This was
supposed to be the new way of delivering applications.  Presumably
it killed just about 100% of the startups who believed that.How do you pick the right platforms?  The usual way is to hire good
programmers and let them choose.  But there is a trick you could
use if you're not a programmer: visit a top computer science
department and see what they use in research projects.8. Slowness in LaunchingCompanies of all sizes have a hard time getting software done.  It's
intrinsic to the medium; software is always 85% done.  It takes an
effort of will to push through this and get something released to
users.
[3]Startups make all kinds of excuses for delaying their launch.  Most
are equivalent to the ones people use for procrastinating in everyday
life.  There's something that needs to happen first.  Maybe.  But
if the software were 100% finished and ready to launch at the push
of a button, would they still be waiting?One reason to launch quickly is that it forces you to actually
finish some quantum of work.  Nothing is truly finished till it's
released; you can see that from the rush of work that's always
involved in releasing anything, no matter how finished you thought
it was.  The other reason you need to launch is that it's only by
bouncing your idea off users that you fully understand it.Several distinct problems manifest themselves as delays in launching:
working too slowly; not truly understanding the problem; fear of
having to deal with users; fear of being judged; working on too
many different things; excessive perfectionism.  Fortunately you
can combat all of them by the simple expedient of forcing yourself
to launch something fairly quickly.9. Launching Too EarlyLaunching too slowly has probably killed a hundred times more
startups than launching too fast, but it is possible to launch too
fast.  The danger here is that you ruin your reputation.  You launch
something, the early adopters try it out, and if it's no good they
may never come back.So what's the minimum you need to launch?  We suggest startups think
about what they plan to do, identify a core that's both (a) useful
on its own and (b) something that can be incrementally expanded
into the whole project, and then get that done as soon as possible.This is the same approach I (and many other programmers) use for
writing software.  Think about the overall goal, then start by
writing the smallest subset of it that does anything useful.  If
it's a subset, you'll have to write it anyway, so in the worst case
you won't be wasting your time.  But more likely you'll find that
implementing a working subset is both good for morale and helps you
see more clearly what the rest should do.The early adopters you need to impress are fairly tolerant.  They
don't expect a newly launched product to do everything; it just has
to do something.10. Having No Specific User in MindYou can't build things users like without understanding them.  I
mentioned earlier that the most successful startups seem to have
begun by trying to solve a problem their founders had.  Perhaps
there's a rule here: perhaps you create wealth in proportion to how
well you understand the problem you're solving, and the problems
you understand best are your own. 
[4]That's just a theory.  What's not a theory is the converse: if
you're trying to solve problems you don't understand, you're hosed.And yet a surprising number of founders seem willing to
assume that someone, they're not sure exactly who, will want what
they're building.  Do the founders want it?  No, they're not the
target market.  Who is?  Teenagers.  People interested in local
events (that one is a perennial tarpit).  Or "business" users.  What
business users?  Gas stations?  Movie studios?  Defense contractors?You can of course build something for users other than yourself.
We did.  But you should realize you're stepping into dangerous
territory.  You're flying on instruments, in effect, so you should
(a) consciously shift gears, instead of assuming you can rely on
your intuitions as you ordinarily would, and (b) look at the
instruments.In this case the instruments are the users.  When designing for
other people you have to be empirical.  You can no longer guess
what will work; you have to find users and measure their responses.
So if you're going to make something for teenagers or "business"
users or some other group that doesn't include you, you have to be
able to talk some specific ones into using what you're making.  If
you can't, you're on the wrong track.11. Raising Too Little MoneyMost successful startups take funding at some point.  Like having
more than one founder, it seems a good bet statistically.  How much
should you take, though?Startup funding is measured in time.  Every startup that isn't
profitable (meaning nearly all of them, initially) has a certain
amount of time left before the money runs out and they have to stop.
This is sometimes referred to as runway, as in "How much runway do
you have left?"  It's a good metaphor because it reminds you that
when the money runs out you're going to be airborne or dead.Too little money means not enough to get airborne.  What airborne
means depends on the situation.  Usually you have to advance to a
visibly higher level: if all you have is an idea, a working prototype;
if you have a prototype, launching; if you're launched, significant
growth.  It depends on investors, because until you're profitable
that's who you have to convince.So if you take money from investors, you have to take enough to get
to the next step, whatever that is.
[5]
Fortunately you have some
control over both how much you spend and what the next step is.  We
advise startups to set both low, initially: spend practically
nothing, and make your initial goal simply to build a solid prototype.
This gives you maximum flexibility.12. Spending Too MuchIt's hard to distinguish spending too much from raising too little.
If you run out of money, you could say either was the cause.  The
only way to decide which to call it is by comparison with other
startups.  If you raised five million and ran out of money, you
probably spent too much.Burning through too much money is not as common as it used to be.
Founders seem to have learned that lesson.  Plus it keeps getting
cheaper to start a startup.  So as of this writing few startups
spend too much.  None of the ones we've funded have.  (And not just
because we make small investments; many have gone on to raise further
rounds.)The classic way to burn through cash is by hiring a lot of people.
This bites you twice: in addition to increasing your costs, it slows
you down—so money that's getting consumed faster has to last
longer.  Most hackers understand why that happens; Fred Brooks
explained it in The Mythical Man-Month.We have three general suggestions about hiring: (a) don't do it if
you can avoid it, (b) pay people with equity rather than salary,
not just to save money, but because you want the kind of people who
are committed enough to prefer that, and (c) only hire people who
are either going to write code or go out and get users, because
those are the only things you need at first.13. Raising Too Much MoneyIt's obvious how too little money could kill you, but is there such
a thing as having too much?Yes and no.  The problem is not so much the money itself as what
comes with it.  As one VC who spoke at Y Combinator said, "Once you
take several million dollars of my money, the clock is ticking."
If VCs fund you, they're not going to let you just put the money
in the bank and keep operating as two guys living on ramen.  They
want that money to go to work. 
[6]
At the very least you'll move
into proper office space and hire more people.  That will change
the atmosphere, and not entirely for the better.  Now most of your
people will be employees rather than founders. They won't be as
committed; they'll need to be told what to do; they'll start to
engage in office politics.When you raise a lot of money, your company moves to the suburbs
and has kids.Perhaps more dangerously, once you take a lot of money it gets
harder to change direction.  Suppose your initial plan was to sell
something to companies.  After taking VC money you hire a sales
force to do that. What happens now if you realize you should be
making this for consumers instead of businesses?  That's a completely
different kind of selling.  What happens, in practice, is that you
don't realize that.  The more people you have, the more you stay
pointed in the same direction.Another drawback of large investments is the time they take.  The
time required to raise money grows with the amount.
[7]
When the
amount rises into the millions, investors get very cautious.  VCs
never quite say yes or no; they just engage you in an apparently
endless conversation.  Raising VC scale investments is thus a huge
time sink — more work, probably, than the startup itself.   And you
don't want to be spending all your time talking to investors while
your competitors are spending theirs building things.We advise founders who go on to seek VC money to take the first
reasonable deal they get.  If you get an offer from a reputable
firm at a reasonable valuation with no unusually onerous terms,
just take it and get on with building the company.
[8]
Who cares
if you could get a 30% better deal elsewhere?  Economically, startups
are an all-or-nothing game.  Bargain-hunting among investors is a
waste of time.14. Poor Investor ManagementAs a founder, you have to manage your investors.  You shouldn't
ignore them, because they may have useful insights.  But neither
should you let them run the company.  That's supposed to be your
job.  If investors had sufficient vision to run the companies
they fund, why didn't they start them?Pissing off investors by ignoring them is probably less dangerous
than caving in to them.  In our startup, we erred on the ignoring
side.  A lot of our energy got drained
away in disputes with investors instead of going into the product.
But this was less costly than giving in, which would probably have
destroyed the company.  If the founders know what they're doing,
it's better to have half their attention focused on the product
than the full attention of investors who don't.How hard you have to work on managing investors usually depends on
how much money you've taken.  When you raise VC-scale money, the
investors get a great deal of control.  If they have a board majority,
they're literally your bosses.  In the more common case, where
founders and investors are equally represented and the deciding
vote is cast by neutral outside directors, all the investors have
to do is convince the outside directors and they control the company.If things go well, this shouldn't matter.  So long as you seem to
be advancing rapidly, most investors will leave you alone.  But
things don't always go smoothly in startups.  Investors have made
trouble even for the most successful companies.  One of the most
famous examples is Apple, whose board made a nearly fatal blunder
in firing Steve Jobs.  Apparently even Google got a lot of grief
from their investors early on.15. Sacrificing Users to (Supposed) ProfitWhen I said at the beginning that if you make something users want,
you'll be fine, you may have noticed I didn't mention anything about
having the right business model.  That's not because making money
is unimportant.  I'm not suggesting that founders start companies
with no chance of making money in the hope of unloading them before
they tank.  The reason we tell founders not to worry about the
business model initially is that making something people want is
so much harder.I don't know why it's so hard to make something people want.  It
seems like it should be straightforward.  But you can tell it must
be hard by how few startups do it.Because making something people want is so much harder than making
money from it, you should leave business models for later, just as
you'd leave some trivial but messy feature for version 2.  In version
1, solve the core problem.  And the core problem in a startup is
how to create wealth 
(= how much people want something x the number
who want it), not how to convert that wealth into money.The companies that win are the ones that put users first.  Google,
for example.  They made search work, then worried about how to make
money from it.  And yet some startup founders still think it's
irresponsible not to focus on the business model from the beginning.
They're often encouraged in this by investors whose experience comes
from less malleable industries.It is irresponsible not to think about business models.  It's
just ten times more irresponsible not to think about the product.16. Not Wanting to Get Your Hands DirtyNearly all programmers would rather spend their time writing code
and have someone else handle the messy business of extracting money
from it.  And not just the lazy ones.  Larry and Sergey apparently
felt this way too at first.  After developing their new search
algorithm, the first thing they tried was to get some other company
to buy it.Start a company?  Yech.  Most hackers would rather just have ideas.
But as Larry and Sergey found, there's not much of a market for
ideas.  No one trusts an idea till you embody it in a product and
use that to grow a user base.  Then they'll pay big time.Maybe this will change, but I doubt it will change much.  There's
nothing like users for convincing acquirers.  It's not just that
the risk is decreased.  The acquirers are human, and they have a
hard time paying a bunch of young guys millions of dollars just for
being clever.  When the idea is embodied in a company with a lot
of users, they can tell themselves they're buying the users rather
than the cleverness, and this is easier for them to swallow.
[9]If you're going to attract users, you'll probably have to get up
from your computer and go find some.  It's unpleasant work, but if
you can make yourself do it you have a much greater chance of
succeeding.  In the first batch of startups we funded, in the summer
of 2005, most of the founders spent all their time building their
applications.  But there was one who was away half the time talking
to executives at cell phone companies, trying to arrange deals.
Can you imagine anything more painful for a hacker?
[10]
But it
paid off, because this startup seems the most successful of that
group by an order of magnitude.If you want to start a startup, you have to face the fact that you
can't just hack.  At least one hacker will have to spend some of
the time doing business stuff.17. Fights Between FoundersFights between founders are surprisingly common.  About 20% of the
startups we've funded have had a founder leave.  It happens so often
that we've reversed our attitude to vesting.  We still don't require
it, but now we advise founders to vest so there will be an orderly
way for people to quit.A founder leaving doesn't necessarily kill a startup, though.  Plenty
of successful startups have had that happen. 
[11]
Fortunately it's
usually the least committed founder who leaves.  If there are three
founders and one who was lukewarm leaves, big deal.  If you have
two and one leaves, or a guy with critical technical skills leaves,
that's more of a problem.  But even that is survivable.  Blogger
got down to one person, and they bounced back.Most of the disputes I've seen between founders could have been
avoided if they'd been more careful about who they started a company
with.  Most disputes are not due to the situation but the people.
Which means they're inevitable.  And most founders who've been
burned by such disputes probably had misgivings, which they suppressed,
when they started the company.  Don't suppress misgivings.  It's
much easier to fix problems before the company is started than
after.  So don't include your housemate in your startup because
he'd feel left out otherwise.  Don't start a company with someone
you dislike because they have some skill you need and you worry you
won't find anyone else.  The people are the most important ingredient
in a startup, so don't compromise there.18. A Half-Hearted EffortThe failed startups you hear most about are the spectacular
flameouts.  Those are actually the elite of failures.  The most
common type is not the one that makes spectacular mistakes, but the
one that doesn't do much of anything — the one we never even hear
about, because it was some project a couple guys started on the
side while working on their day jobs, but which never got anywhere
and was gradually abandoned.Statistically, if you want to avoid failure, it would seem like the
most important thing is to quit your day job.  Most founders of
failed startups don't quit their day jobs, and most founders of
successful ones do.  If startup failure were a disease, the CDC
would be issuing bulletins warning people to avoid day jobs.Does that mean you should quit your day job?  Not necessarily.  I'm
guessing here, but I'd guess that many of these would-be founders
may not have the kind of determination it takes to start a company,
and that in the back of their minds, they know it.  The reason they
don't invest more time in their startup is that they know it's a
bad investment.
[12]I'd also guess there's some band of people who could have succeeded
if they'd taken the leap and done it full-time, but didn't. I have
no idea how wide this band is, but if the winner/borderline/hopeless
progression has the sort of distribution you'd expect, the number
of people who could have made it, if they'd quit their day job, is
probably an order of magnitude larger than the number who do make
it.
[13]If that's true, most startups that could succeed fail because the
founders don't devote their whole efforts to them.  That certainly
accords with what I see out in the world.  Most startups fail because
they don't make something people want, and the reason most don't
is that they don't try hard enough.In other words, starting startups is just like everything else.
The biggest mistake you can make is not to try hard enough.  To the
extent there's a secret to success, it's not to be in denial about
that.Notes[1]
This is not a complete list of the causes of failure,
just those you can control.  There are also several you can't,
notably ineptitude and bad luck.[2]
Ironically, one variant of the Facebook that might work is a
facebook exclusively for college students.[3]
Steve Jobs tried to motivate people by saying "Real artists
ship."  This is a fine sentence, but unfortunately not true.  Many
famous works of art are unfinished.  It's true in fields that have
hard deadlines, like architecture and filmmaking, but even there
people tend to be tweaking stuff till it's yanked out of their
hands.[4]
There's probably also a second factor: startup founders tend
to be at the leading edge of technology, so problems they face are
probably especially valuable.[5]
You should take more than you think you'll need, maybe 50% to
100% more, because software takes longer to write and deals longer
to close than you expect.[6]
Since people sometimes call us VCs, I should add that we're
not.  VCs invest large amounts of other people's money.  We invest
small amounts of our own, like angel investors.[7]
Not linearly of course, or it would take forever to raise five
million dollars.  In practice it just feels like it takes forever.Though if you include the cases where VCs don't invest, it would
literally take forever in the median case.  And maybe we should,
because the danger of chasing large investments is not just that
they take a long time.  That's the best case.  The real danger
is that you'll expend a lot of time and get nothing.[8]
Some VCs will offer you an artificially low valuation to see
if you have the balls to ask for more.  It's lame that VCs play
such games, but some do.  If you're dealing with one of those you
should push back on the valuation a bit.[9]
Suppose YouTube's founders had gone to Google in 2005 and told
them "Google Video is badly designed.  Give us $10 million and we'll
tell you all the mistakes you made."  They would have gotten
the royal raspberry.  Eighteen months later Google paid $1.6 billion
for the same lesson, partly because they could then tell themselves
that they were buying a phenomenon, or a community, or some vague
thing like that.I don't mean to be hard on Google.  They did better than their
competitors, who may have now missed the video boat entirely.[10]
Yes, actually: dealing with the government.  But phone companies
are up there.[11]
Many more than most people realize, because companies don't advertise
this.  Did you know Apple originally had three founders?[12]
I'm not dissing these people.  I don't have the determination
myself.  I've twice come close to starting startups since Viaweb,
and both times I bailed because I realized that without the spur
of poverty I just wasn't willing to endure the stress of a startup.[13]
So how do you know whether you're in the category of people
who should quit their day job, or the presumably larger one who
shouldn't?  I got to the point of saying that this was hard to judge
for yourself and that you should seek outside advice, before realizing
that that's what we do.  We think of ourselves as investors, but
viewed from the other direction Y Combinator is a service for
advising people whether or not to quit their day job.  We could be
mistaken, and no doubt often are, but we do at least bet money on
our conclusions.Thanks to Sam Altman, Jessica Livingston, Greg McAdoo, and Robert Morris 
for reading drafts of this.
Japanese TranslationSpanish TranslationRomanian TranslationChinese TranslationArabic Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


October 2006(This essay is derived from a talk at MIT.)Till recently graduating seniors had two choices: get a job or go
to grad school.  I think there will increasingly be a third option:
to start your own startup.  But how common will that be?I'm sure the default will always be to get a job, but starting a
startup could well become as popular as grad school.  In the late
90s my professor friends used to complain that they couldn't get
grad students, because all the undergrads were going to work for
startups.  I wouldn't be surprised if that situation returns, but
with one difference: this time they'll be starting their own
instead of going to work for other people's.The most ambitious students will at this point be asking: Why wait
till you graduate?  Why not start a startup while you're in college?
In fact, why go to college at all?  Why not start a startup instead?A year and a half ago I gave a talk 
where I said that the average age of the founders of
Yahoo, Google, and Microsoft was 24, and that if grad students could
start startups, why not undergrads?  I'm glad I phrased that as a
question, because now I can pretend it wasn't merely a rhetorical
one.  At the time I couldn't imagine why there should be any lower
limit for the age of startup founders.  Graduation is a bureaucratic
change, not a biological one.  And certainly there are undergrads
as competent technically as most grad students.  So why shouldn't
undergrads be able to start startups as well as grad students?I now realize that something does change at graduation: you lose a
huge excuse for failing.  Regardless of how complex your life is,
you'll find that everyone else, including your family and friends,
will discard all the low bits and regard you as having a single
occupation at any given time.  If you're in college and have a
summer job writing software, you still read as a student.  Whereas
if you graduate and get a job programming, you'll be instantly
regarded by everyone as a programmer.The problem with starting a startup while you're still in school
is that there's a built-in escape hatch.  If you start a startup
in the summer between your junior and senior year, it reads to
everyone as a summer job.
So if it goes nowhere, big deal; you return to school in the
fall with all the other seniors; no one regards you as a failure,
because your occupation is student, and you didn't fail at that.
Whereas if you start a startup just one year later, after you
graduate, as long as you're not accepted to grad school in the fall
the startup reads to everyone as your occupation.  You're
now a startup founder, so you have to do well at that.For nearly everyone, the opinion of one's peers is the most powerful
motivator of all—more powerful even than the nominal goal of most
startup founders, getting rich.  
[1]
About a month into each funding
cycle we have an event called Prototype Day where each startup
presents to the others what they've got so far.  You might think
they wouldn't need any more motivation.  They're working on their
cool new idea; they have funding for the immediate future; and
they're playing a game with only two outcomes: wealth or failure.
You'd think that would be motivation enough.  And yet the prospect
of a demo pushes most of them into a
rush of activity.Even if you start a startup explicitly to get rich, the money you
might get seems pretty theoretical most of the time.  What drives
you day to day is not wanting to look bad.You probably can't change that.  Even if you could, I don't think
you'd want to; someone who really, truly doesn't care what his peers
think of him is probably a psychopath.  So the best you can do is
consider this force like a wind, and set up your boat accordingly.
If you know your peers are going to push you in some direction,
choose good peers, and position yourself so they push you in a
direction you like.Graduation changes the prevailing winds, and those make a difference.
Starting a startup is so hard
that it's a close call even for the ones that succeed.  However
high a startup may be flying now, it probably has a few leaves stuck
in the landing gear from those trees it barely cleared at the end
of the runway.  In such a close game, the smallest increase in the
forces against you can be enough to flick you over the edge into
failure.When we first started Y Combinator 
we encouraged people to start
startups while they were still in college.  That's partly because
Y Combinator began as a kind of summer program.  We've kept the
program shape—all of us having dinner together once a week turns
out to be a good idea—but we've decided now
that the party line should be to tell people to wait till they
graduate.Does that mean you can't start a startup in college?  Not at all.
Sam Altman, the co-founder of Loopt,
had just finished his sophomore year when we funded them, and Loopt
is probably the most promising of all the startups we've funded so
far.  But Sam Altman is a very unusual guy.  Within about three
minutes of meeting him, I remember thinking "Ah, so this is what
Bill Gates must have been like when he was 19."If it can work to start a startup during college, why do
we tell people not to?  For the same reason that the probably
apocryphal violinist, whenever he was asked to judge someone's
playing, would always say they didn't have enough talent to make
it as a pro.  Succeeding as a musician takes determination as well
as talent, so this answer works out to be the right advice for
everyone.  The ones who are uncertain believe it and give up, and
the ones who are sufficiently determined think "screw that, I'll
succeed anyway."So our official policy now is only to fund undergrads we can't talk
out of it.  And frankly, if you're not certain, you should wait.
It's not as if all the opportunities to start companies are going
to be gone if you don't do it now.  Maybe the window will close on
some idea you're working on, but that won't be the last idea you'll
have.  For every idea that times out, new ones become feasible.
Historically the opportunities to start startups have only increased
with time.In that case, you might ask, why not wait longer?  Why not go work
for a while, or go to grad school, and then start a startup?  And
indeed, that might be a good idea.  If I had to pick the sweet spot
for startup founders, based on who we're most excited to see
applications from, I'd say it's probably the mid-twenties.  Why?
What advantages does someone in their mid-twenties have over someone
who's 21?  And why isn't it older?  What can 25 year olds do that
32 year olds can't?  Those turn out to be questions worth examining.PlusIf you start a startup soon after college, you'll be a young founder
by present standards, so you should know what the relative advantages
of young founders are.  They're not what you might think.  As a
young founder your strengths are: stamina, poverty, rootlessness,
colleagues, and ignorance.The importance of stamina shouldn't be surprising.  If you've heard
anything about startups you've probably heard about the long hours.
As far as I can tell these are universal.  I can't think of any
successful startups whose founders worked 9 to 5.  And it's
particularly necessary for younger founders to work long hours
because they're probably not as efficient as they'll be later.Your second advantage, poverty, might not sound like an advantage,
but it is a huge one.  Poverty implies you can live cheaply,
and this is critically important for startups.  Nearly every startup
that fails, fails by running out of money.  It's a little misleading
to put it this way, because there's usually some other underlying
cause.  But regardless of the source of your problems, a low burn
rate gives you more opportunity to recover from them.  And since
most startups make all kinds of mistakes at first, room to recover
from mistakes is a valuable thing to have.Most startups end up doing something different than they planned.
The way the successful ones find something that works is by trying
things that don't.  So the worst thing you can do in a startup is
to have a rigid, pre-ordained plan and then start spending a lot
of money to implement it.  Better to operate cheaply and give your
ideas time to evolve.Recent grads can live on practically nothing, and this gives you
an edge over older founders, because the main cost in software
startups is people.  The guys with kids and mortgages are at a
real disadvantage.  This is one reason I'd bet on the 25 year old
over the 32 year old.  The 32 year old probably is a better programmer,
but probably also has a much more expensive life.  Whereas a 25
year old has some work experience (more on that later) but can live
as cheaply as an undergrad.Robert Morris and I were 29 and 30 respectively when we started
Viaweb, but fortunately we still lived like 23 year olds.  We both had
roughly zero assets.  I would have loved to have a mortgage,
since that would have meant I had a house.  But in retrospect
having nothing turned out to be convenient. I wasn't tied down and
I was used to living cheaply.Even more important than living cheaply, though, is thinking cheaply.
One reason the Apple II was so popular was that it was cheap.  The
computer itself was cheap, and it used cheap, off-the-shelf peripherals
like a cassette tape recorder for data storage and a TV as a monitor.
And you know why?  Because Woz designed this computer for himself,
and he couldn't afford anything more.We benefitted from the same phenomenon.  Our prices were
daringly low for the time.  The top level of service was
$300 a month, which was an order of magnitude below the norm.  In
retrospect this was a smart move, but we didn't do it because we
were smart.  $300 a month seemed like a lot of money to us.  Like
Apple, we created something inexpensive, and therefore popular,
simply because we were poor.A lot of startups have that form: someone comes along and makes
something for a tenth or a hundredth of what it used to cost, and
the existing players can't follow because they don't even want to
think about a world in which that's possible.  Traditional long
distance carriers, for example, didn't even want to think about
VoIP.  (It was coming, all the same.)  Being poor helps in this
game, because your own personal bias points in the same direction
technology evolves in.The advantages of rootlessness are similar to those of poverty.
When you're young you're more mobile—not just because you don't
have a house or much stuff, but also because you're less likely to
have serious relationships.  This turns out to be important, because
a lot of startups involve someone moving.The founders of Kiko, for example, are now en route to the Bay Area
to start their next startup.  It's a better place for what they
want to do.  And it was easy for them to decide to go, because
neither as far as I know has a serious girlfriend, and everything
they own will fit in one car—or more precisely, will either fit
in one car or is crappy enough that they don't mind leaving it
behind.They at least were in Boston.  What if they'd been in Nebraska,
like Evan Williams was at their age?   Someone wrote recently that
the drawback of Y Combinator was that you had to move to participate.
It couldn't be any other way. The kind of conversations we have
with founders, we have to have in person.  We fund a dozen startups
at a time, and we can't be in a dozen places at once.  But even if
we could somehow magically save people from moving, we wouldn't.
We wouldn't be doing founders a favor by letting them stay in
Nebraska.  Places that aren't 
startup hubs are toxic to startups.
You can tell that from indirect evidence.  You can tell how hard
it must be to start a startup in Houston or Chicago or Miami from
the microscopically small number, per capita, that succeed 
there.  I don't know exactly what's suppressing all the startups in these
towns—probably a hundred subtle little things—but something
must be.
[2]Maybe this will change.  Maybe the increasing cheapness of startups
will mean they'll be able to survive anywhere, instead of only in
the most hospitable environments.  Maybe 37signals is the pattern
for the future.  But maybe not.  Historically there have always
been certain towns that were centers for certain industries, and
if you weren't in one of them you were at a disadvantage.  So my
guess is that 37signals is an anomaly.  We're looking at a pattern
much older than "Web 2.0" here.Perhaps the reason more startups per capita happen in the Bay Area
than Miami is simply that there are more founder-type people there.
Successful startups are almost never started by one person.  Usually
they begin with a conversation in which someone mentions that
something would be a good idea for a company, and his friend says,
"Yeah, that is a good idea, let's try it."  If you're missing that
second person who says "let's try it," the startup never happens.
And that is another area where undergrads have an edge.  They're
surrounded by people willing to say that.  At a good college you're
concentrated together with a lot of other ambitious and technically
minded people—probably more concentrated than you'll ever be
again.  If your nucleus spits out a neutron, there's a good chance
it will hit another nucleus.The number one question people ask us at Y Combinator is: Where can
I find a co-founder?  That's the biggest problem for someone starting
a startup at 30.  When they were in school they knew a lot of good
co-founders, but by 30 they've either lost touch with them or these
people are tied down by jobs they don't want to leave.Viaweb was an anomaly in this respect too.  Though we were comparatively
old, we weren't tied down by impressive jobs.  I was trying to be
an artist, which is not very constraining, and Robert, though 29,
was still in grad school due to a little interruption in his academic
career back in 1988.  So arguably the Worm made Viaweb possible.
Otherwise Robert would have been a junior professor at that age,
and he wouldn't have had time to work on crazy speculative projects
with me.Most of the questions people ask Y Combinator we have some kind of
answer for, but not the co-founder question.  There is no good
answer.  Co-founders really should be people you already know.  And
by far the best place to meet them is school. You have a large
sample of smart people; you get to compare how they all perform on
identical tasks; and everyone's life is pretty fluid.  A lot of
startups grow out of schools for this reason.  Google, Yahoo, and
Microsoft, among others, were all founded by people who met in
school.  (In Microsoft's case, it was high school.)Many students feel they should wait and get a little more experience
before they start a company.  All other things being equal, they
should.  But all other things are not quite as equal as they look.
Most students don't realize how rich they are in the scarcest
ingredient in startups, co-founders.  If you wait too long, you may
find that your friends are now involved in some project they don't
want to abandon.  The better they are, the more likely this is to
happen.One way to mitigate this problem might be to actively plan your
startup while you're getting those n years of experience.  Sure,
go off and get jobs or go to grad school or whatever, but get
together regularly to scheme, so the idea of starting a startup
stays alive in everyone's brain.  I don't know if this works, but
it can't hurt to try.It would be helpful just to realize what an advantage you have as
students.  Some of your classmates are probably going to be successful
startup founders; at a great technical university, that is a near
certainty.  So which ones?  If I were you I'd look for the people
who are not just smart, but incurable 
builders.  
Look
for the people who keep starting projects, and finish at least some
of them.  That's what we look for.  Above all else, above academic
credentials and even the idea you apply with, we look for people
who build things.The other place co-founders meet is at work.  Fewer do than at
school, but there are things you can do to improve the odds.  The
most important, obviously, is to work somewhere that has a lot of
smart, young people.  Another is to work for a company located in
a startup hub.  It will be easier to talk a co-worker into quitting
with you in a place where startups are happening all around you.You might also want to look at the employment agreement you sign
when you get hired.  Most will say that any ideas you think of while
you're employed by the company belong to them.  In practice it's
hard for anyone to prove what ideas you had when, so the line gets
drawn at code.  If you're going to start a startup, don't write any
of the code while you're still employed.  Or at least discard any
code you wrote while still employed and start over.  It's not so
much that your employer will find out and sue you.  It won't come
to that; investors or acquirers or (if you're so lucky) underwriters
will nail you first.  Between t = 0 and when you buy that yacht,
someone is going to ask if any of your code legally belongs
to anyone else, and you need to be able to say no.
[3]The most overreaching employee agreement I've seen so far is Amazon's.
In addition to the usual clauses about owning your ideas, you also
can't be a founder of a startup that has another founder who worked
at Amazon—even if you didn't know them or even work there at the
same time. I suspect they'd have a hard time enforcing this, but
it's a bad sign they even try.  There are plenty of other places
to work; you may as well choose one that keeps more of your options
open.Speaking of cool places to work, there is of course Google.  But I
notice something slightly frightening about Google: zero startups
come out of there.  In that respect it's a black hole.  People seem
to like working at Google too much to leave.  So if you hope to start
a startup one day, the evidence so far suggests you shouldn't work
there.I realize this seems odd advice.  If they make your life so good
that you don't want to leave, why not work there?  Because, in
effect, you're probably getting a local maximum.  You need a certain
activation energy to start a startup.  So an employer who's fairly
pleasant to work for can lull you into staying indefinitely, even
if it would be a net win for you to leave.
[4]The best place to work, if you want to start a startup, is probably
a startup.  In addition to being the right sort of experience, one
way or another it will be over quickly.  You'll either end up rich,
in which case problem solved, or the startup will get bought, in
which case it it will start to suck to work there and it will be
easy to leave, or most likely, the thing will blow up and you'll
be free again.Your final advantage, ignorance, may not sound very useful.  I
deliberately used a controversial word for it; you might equally
call it innocence.  But it seems to be a powerful force.  My Y
Combinator co-founder Jessica Livingston is just about to publish
a book of interviews
with startup founders, and I noticed a remarkable pattern in them.
One after another said that if they'd known how hard it would be,
they would have been too intimidated to start.Ignorance can be useful when it's a counterweight to other forms
of stupidity.  It's useful in starting startups because you're
capable of more than you realize.  Starting startups is harder than
you expect, but you're also capable of more than you expect, so
they balance out.Most people look at a company like Apple and think, how could I
ever make such a thing?  Apple is an institution, and I'm just a
person.  But every institution was at one point just a handful of
people in a room deciding to start something.  Institutions are
made up, and made up by people no different from you.I'm not saying everyone could start a startup.  I'm sure most people
couldn't; I don't know much about the population at large.  When
you get to groups I know well, like hackers, I can say more precisely.
At the top schools, I'd guess as many as a quarter of the CS majors
could make it as startup founders if they wanted.That "if they wanted" is an important qualification—so important
that it's almost cheating to append it like that—because once you
get over a certain threshold of intelligence, which most CS majors
at top schools are past, the deciding factor in whether you succeed
as a founder is how much you want to.  You don't have to be that
smart.  If you're not a genius, just start a startup in some unsexy
field where you'll have less competition, like software for human
resources departments.  I picked that example at random, but I feel
safe in predicting that whatever they have now, it wouldn't take
genius to do better.   There are a lot of people out there working
on boring stuff who are desperately in need of better software, so
however short you think you fall of Larry and Sergey, you can ratchet
down the coolness of the idea far enough to compensate.As well as preventing you from being intimidated, ignorance can
sometimes help you discover new ideas.  Steve Wozniak
put this very strongly:

  All the best things that I did at Apple came from (a) not having
  money and (b) not having done it before, ever. Every single thing
  that we came out with that was really great, I'd never once done
  that thing in my life.

When you know nothing, you have to reinvent stuff for yourself, and
if you're smart your reinventions may be better than what preceded
them.  This is especially true in fields where the rules change.
All our ideas about software were developed in a time when processors
were slow, and memories and disks were tiny.  Who knows what obsolete
assumptions are embedded in the conventional wisdom?  And the way
these assumptions are going to get fixed is not by explicitly
deallocating them, but by something more akin to garbage collection.
Someone ignorant but smart will come along and reinvent everything,
and in the process simply fail to reproduce certain existing ideas.MinusSo much for the advantages of young founders.  What about the
disadvantages? I'm going to start with what goes wrong and try to
trace it back to the root causes.What goes wrong with young founders is that they build stuff that
looks like class projects.  It was only recently that we figured
this out ourselves.  We noticed a lot of similarities between the
startups that seemed to be falling behind, but we couldn't figure
out how to put it into words.  Then finally we realized what it
was: they were building class projects.But what does that really mean?  What's wrong with class projects?
What's the difference between a class project and a real startup?
If we could answer that question it would be useful not just to
would-be startup founders but to students in general, because we'd
be a long way toward explaining the mystery of the so-called real
world.There seem to be two big things missing in class projects: (1) an
iterative definition of a real problem and (2) intensity.The first is probably unavoidable.  Class projects will inevitably
solve fake problems.  For one thing, real problems are rare and
valuable.  If a professor wanted to have students solve real problems,
he'd face the same paradox as someone trying to give an example of
whatever "paradigm" might succeed the Standard Model of physics.
There may well be something that does, but if you could think of
an example you'd be entitled to the Nobel Prize.  Similarly, good
new problems are not to be had for the asking.In technology the difficulty is compounded by the fact that real
startups tend to discover the problem they're solving by a process
of evolution.  Someone has an idea for something; they build it;
and in doing so (and probably only by doing so) they realize
the problem they should be solving is another one.  Even if the
professor let you change your project description on the fly, there
isn't time enough to do that in a college class, or a market to
supply evolutionary pressures.  So class
projects are mostly about implementation, which is the least
of your problems in a startup.It's not just that in a startup you work on the idea as well as
implementation.  The very implementation is different.  Its main
purpose is to refine the idea.  Often the only value of most of the
stuff you build in the first six months is that it proves your
initial idea was mistaken.  And that's extremely valuable.  If
you're free of a misconception that everyone else still shares,
you're in a powerful position.  But you're not thinking that way
about a class project.  Proving your initial plan was mistaken would
just get you a bad grade.  Instead of building stuff to throw away,
you tend to want every line of code to go toward that final goal
of showing you did a lot of work.That leads to our second difference: the way class projects are
measured.  Professors will tend to judge you by the distance between
the starting point and where you are now.  If someone has achieved
a lot, they should get a good grade.  But customers will judge you
from the other direction: the distance remaining between where you
are now and the features they need.  The market doesn't give a shit
how hard you worked.  Users just want your software to do what they
need, and you get a zero otherwise.  That is one of the most
distinctive differences between school and the real world: there
is no reward for putting in a good effort.  In fact, the whole
concept of a "good effort" is a fake idea adults invented to encourage
kids.  It is not found in nature.Such lies seem to be helpful to kids.  But unfortunately when you
graduate they don't give you a list of all the lies they told you
during your education.  You have to get them beaten out of you by
contact with the real world.  And this is why so many jobs want
work experience.  I couldn't understand that when I was in college.
I knew how to program.  In fact, I could tell I knew how to program
better than most people doing it for a living.  So what was this
mysterious "work experience" and why did I need it?Now I know what it is, and part of the confusion is grammatical.
Describing it as "work experience" implies it's like experience
operating a certain kind of machine, or using a certain programming
language.  But really what work experience refers to is not some
specific expertise, but the elimination of certain habits left over
from childhood.One of the defining qualities of kids is that they flake.  When
you're a kid and you face some hard test, you can cry and say "I
can't" and they won't make you do it.  Of course, no one can make
you do anything in the grownup world either.  What they do instead
is fire you.  And when motivated by that
you find you can do a lot more than you realized.  So one of the
things employers expect from someone with "work experience" is the
elimination of the flake reflex—the ability to get things done,
with no excuses.The other thing you get from work experience is an understanding
of what work is, and in particular, how intrinsically horrible it
is.  Fundamentally the equation is a brutal one: you have to spend
most of your waking hours doing stuff someone else wants, or starve.
There are a few places where the work is so interesting that this
is concealed, because what other people want done happens to coincide
with what you want to work on.  But you only have to imagine what
would happen if they diverged to see the underlying reality.It's not so much that adults lie to kids about this as never explain
it.  They never explain what the deal is with money.  You know from
an early age that you'll have some sort of job, because everyone
asks what you're going to "be" when you grow up. What they
don't tell you is that as a kid you're sitting on the shoulders of
someone else who's treading water, and that starting working means
you get thrown into the water on your own, and have to start treading
water yourself or sink.  "Being" something is incidental; the
immediate problem is not to drown.The relationship between work and money tends to dawn on you only
gradually.  At least it did for me.  One's first thought tends to
be simply "This sucks.  I'm in debt. Plus I have to get up on monday
and go to work."  Gradually you realize that these two things are
as tightly connected as only a market can make them.So the most important advantage 24 year old founders have over 20
year old founders is that they know what they're trying to avoid.
To the average undergrad the idea of getting rich translates into
buying Ferraris, or being admired.  To someone who has learned from
experience about the relationship between money and work, it
translates to something way more important: it means you get to opt
out of the brutal equation that governs the lives of 99.9% of people.
Getting rich means you can stop treading water.Someone who gets this will work much harder at making a startup
succeed—with the proverbial energy of a drowning man, in fact.
But understanding the relationship between money and work also
changes the way you work.  You don't get money just for working,
but for doing things other people want.  Someone who's figured that
out will automatically focus more on the user.  And that cures the
other half of the class-project syndrome.  After you've been working
for a while, you yourself tend to measure what you've done the same
way the market does.Of course, you don't have to spend years working to learn this
stuff.  If you're sufficiently perceptive you can grasp these things
while you're still in school.  Sam Altman did.  He must have, because
Loopt is no class project.  And as his example suggests, this can
be valuable knowledge.  At a minimum, if you get this stuff, you
already have most of what you gain from the "work experience"
employers consider so desirable.  But of course if you really get
it, you can use this information in a way that's more valuable to
you than that.NowSo suppose you think you might start a startup at some point, either
when you graduate or a few years after.  What should you do now?
For both jobs and grad school, there are ways to prepare while
you're in college.  If you want to get a job when you graduate, you
should get summer jobs at places you'd like to work.  If you want
to go to grad school, it will help to work on research projects as
an undergrad.  What's the equivalent for startups?  How do you keep
your options maximally open?One thing you can do while you're still in school is to learn how
startups work.  Unfortunately that's not easy.  Few if any colleges
have classes about startups.  There may be business school classes
on entrepreneurship, as they call it over there, but these are
likely to be a waste of time.  Business schools like to talk about
startups, but philosophically they're at the opposite end of the
spectrum.  Most books on startups also seem to be useless.  I've
looked at a few and none get it right.  Books in most fields are
written by people who know the subject from experience, but for
startups there's a unique problem:  by definition the founders of
successful startups don't need to write books to make money. As a
result most books on the subject end up being written by people who
don't understand it.So I'd be skeptical of classes and books.  The way to learn about
startups is by watching them in action, preferably by working at
one.  How do you do that as an undergrad?  Probably by sneaking in
through the back door. Just hang around a lot and gradually start
doing things for them.  Most startups are (or should be) very
cautious about hiring.  Every hire increases the burn rate, and bad
hires early on are hard to recover from.  However, startups usually
have a fairly informal atmosphere, and there's always a lot that
needs to be done.  If you just start doing stuff for them, many
will be too busy to shoo you away.  You can thus gradually work
your way into their confidence, and maybe turn it into an official
job later, or not, whichever you prefer.  This won't work for all
startups, but it would work for most I've known.Number two, make the most of the great advantage of school: the
wealth of co-founders.  Look at the people around you and ask
yourself which you'd like to work with.  When you apply that test,
you may find you get surprising results.  You may find you'd prefer
the quiet guy you've mostly ignored to someone who seems impressive
but has an attitude to match.  I'm not suggesting you suck up to
people you don't really like because you think one day they'll be
successful.  Exactly the opposite, in fact: you should only start
a startup with someone you like, because a startup will put your
friendship through a stress test.  I'm just saying you should think
about who you really admire and hang out with them, instead of
whoever circumstances throw you together with.Another thing you can do is learn skills that will be useful to you
in a startup.  These may be different from the skills you'd learn
to get a job.  For example, thinking about getting a job will make
you want to learn programming languages you think employers want,
like Java and C++.  Whereas if you start a startup, you get to pick
the language, so you have to think about which will actually let
you get the most done.  If you use that test you might end up
learning Ruby or Python instead.
But the most important skill for a startup founder isn't a programming
technique.  It's a knack for understanding users and figuring out
how to give them what they want.  I know I repeat this, but that's
because it's so important.  And it's a skill you can learn, though
perhaps habit might be a better word.  Get into the habit of thinking
of software as having users.  What do those users want?  What would
make them say wow?This is particularly valuable for undergrads, because the concept
of users is missing from most college programming classes.  The way
you get taught programming in college would be like teaching writing
as grammar, without mentioning that its purpose is to communicate
something to an audience.  Fortunately an audience for software is
now only an http request away.  So in addition to the programming
you do for your classes, why not build some kind of website people
will find useful?  At the very least it will teach you how to write
software with users.  In the best case, it might not just be
preparation for a startup, but the startup itself, like it was for
Yahoo and Google.Notes[1]
Even the desire to protect one's children seems weaker, judging
from things people have historically done to their kids
rather than risk their community's disapproval.  (I assume we still
do things that will be regarded in the future as barbaric, but
historical abuses are easier for us to see.)[2]
Worrying that Y Combinator makes founders move for 3 months
also suggests one underestimates how hard it is to start a startup.
You're going to have to put up with much greater inconveniences than
that.[3]
Most employee agreements
say that any idea relating to the company's present or potential
future business belongs to them.  Often as not the second clause could
include any possible startup, and anyone doing due diligence for an 
investor or acquirer will assume the worst.To be safe either (a) don't use code written while you
were still employed in your previous job, or (b) get your employer to
renounce, in writing, any claim to the code you write for your side   
project.  Many will consent to (b) rather than
lose a prized employee.  The downside is that you'll have to tell them
exactly what your project does.[4]
Geshke and Warnock only founded Adobe because Xerox ignored
them.  If Xerox had used what they built, they would probably 
never have left PARC.Thanks to Jessica Livingston and Robert Morris for reading
drafts of this, and to Jeff Arnold and the SIPB for inviting me to
speak.

Comment on this essay.Chinese TranslationArabic Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


August 2006, rev. April 2007, September 2010In a few days it will be Demo Day, when the startups we funded
this summer present to investors.  Y Combinator funds startups twice
a year, in January and June.  Ten weeks later we invite all the
investors we know to hear them present what they've built so far.Ten weeks is not much time.  The average startup probably doesn't
have much to show for itself after ten weeks.  But the average
startup fails.  When you look at the ones that went on to do great
things, you find a lot that began with someone pounding out a
prototype in a week or two of nonstop work.  Startups are a
counterexample to the rule that haste makes waste.(Too much money seems to be as bad for startups as too much time,
so we don't give them much money either.)A week before Demo Day, we have a dress rehearsal called Rehearsal Day.
At other Y Combinator events we allow outside guests, but not at
Rehearsal Day.  No one except the other founders gets to see the rehearsals.The presentations on Rehearsal Day are often pretty rough.  But this is
to be expected.  We try to pick founders who are good at building
things, not ones who are slick presenters.  Some of the founders
are just out of college, or even still in it, and have never spoken
to a group of people they didn't already know.So we concentrate on the basics.  On Demo Day each startup will
only get ten minutes, so we encourage them to focus on just two
goals: (a) explain what you're doing, and (b) explain why users
will want it.That might sound easy, but it's not when the speakers have no
experience presenting, and they're explaining technical matters to
an audience that's mostly non-technical.This situation is constantly repeated when startups present to
investors: people who are bad at explaining, talking to people who
are bad at understanding.  Practically every successful startup,
including stars like Google, presented at some point to investors
who didn't get it and turned them down.  Was it because the founders
were bad at presenting, or because the investors were obtuse?  It's
probably always some of both.At the most recent Rehearsal Day, we four Y Combinator partners found
ourselves saying a lot of the same things we said at the last two.
So at dinner afterward we collected all our tips about presenting
to investors.  Most startups face similar challenges, so we hope
these will be useful to a wider audience.1. Explain what you're doing.Investors' main question when judging a very early startup is whether
you've made a compelling product.  Before they can judge whether
you've built a good x, they have to understand what kind of x you've
built.  They will get very frustrated if instead of telling them
what you do, you make them sit through some kind of preamble.Say what you're doing as soon as possible, preferably in the first
sentence. "We're Jeff and Bob and we've built an easy to use web-based
database.  Now we'll show it to you and explain why people need
this."If you're a great public speaker you may be able to violate this
rule.  Last year one founder spent the whole first half of his talk
on a fascinating analysis of the limits of the conventional desktop
metaphor.  He got away with it, but unless you're a captivating
speaker, which most hackers aren't, it's better to play it safe.2. Get rapidly to demo.This section is now obsolete for YC founders presenting
at Demo Day, because Demo Day presentations are now so short
that they rarely include much if any demo.  They seem to work
just as well without, however, which makes me think I was
wrong to emphasize demos so much before.A demo explains what you've made more effectively than any verbal
description.  The only thing worth talking about first is the problem
you're trying to solve and why it's important.  But don't spend
more than a tenth of your time on that.  Then demo.When you demo, don't run through a catalog of features.  Instead
start with the problem you're solving, and then show how your product
solves it.  Show features in an order driven by some kind of purpose,
rather than the order in which they happen to appear on the screen.If you're demoing something web-based, assume that the network
connection will mysteriously die 30 seconds into your presentation,
and come prepared with a copy of the server software running on
your laptop.3. Better a narrow description than a vague one.One reason founders resist describing their projects concisely is
that, at this early stage, there are all kinds of possibilities.
The most concise descriptions seem misleadingly narrow.  So for
example a group that has built an easy web-based database might
resist calling their applicaton that, because it could be so much
more.  In fact, it could be anything...The problem is, as you approach (in the calculus sense) a description
of something that could be anything, the content of your description
approaches zero.  If you describe your web-based database as "a
system to allow people to collaboratively leverage the value of
information," it will go in one investor ear and out the other.
They'll just discard that sentence as meaningless boilerplate, and
hope, with increasing impatience, that in the next sentence you'll
actually explain what you've made.Your primary goal is not to describe everything your system might
one day become, but simply to convince investors you're worth talking
to further.  So approach this like an algorithm that gets the right
answer by successive approximations.  Begin with a description
that's gripping but perhaps overly narrow, then flesh it out to the
extent you can.  It's the same principle as incremental development:
start with a simple prototype, then add features, but at every point
have working code.  In this case, "working code" means a working
description in the investor's head.4. Don't talk and drive.Have one person talk while another uses the computer.  If the same
person does both, they'll inevitably mumble downwards at the computer
screen instead of talking clearly at the audience.As long as you're standing near the audience and looking at them,
politeness (and habit) compel them to pay attention to you.  Once
you stop looking at them to fuss with something on your computer,
their minds drift off to the errands they have to run later.5. Don't talk about secondary matters at length.If you only have a few minutes, spend them explaining what your
product does and why it's great.  Second order issues like competitors
or resumes should be single slides you go through quickly at the
end.  If you have impressive resumes, just flash them on the screen
for 15 seconds and say a few words.  For competitors, list the top
3 and explain in one sentence each what they lack
that you have.  And put this kind of thing at the end, after you've
made it clear what you've built.6. Don't get too deeply into business models.It's good to talk about how you plan to make money, but mainly
because it shows you care about that and have thought about it.
Don't go into detail about your business model, because (a) that's
not what smart investors care about in a brief presentation, and
(b) any business model you have at this point is probably wrong
anyway.Recently a VC who came to speak at Y Combinator talked about a
company he just invested in.  He said their business model was wrong
and would probably change three times before they got it right.
The founders were experienced guys who'd done startups before and
who'd just succeeded in getting millions from one of the top VC
firms, and even their business model was crap.  (And yet he invested
anyway, because he expected it to be crap at this stage.)If you're solving an important problem, you're going to sound a lot
smarter talking about that than the business model.  The business
model is just a bunch of guesses, and guesses about stuff that's
probably not your area of expertise.  So don't spend your precious
few minutes talking about crap when you could be talking about
solid, interesting things you know a lot about: the problem you're
solving and what you've built so far.As well as being a bad use of time, if your business model seems
spectacularly wrong, that will push the stuff you want investors
to remember out of their heads.  They'll just remember you as the
company with the boneheaded plan for making money, rather than the
company that solved that important problem.7. Talk slowly and clearly at the audience.Everyone at Rehearsal Day could see the difference between the people
who'd been out in the world for a while and had presented to groups,
and those who hadn't.You need to use a completely different voice and manner talking to
a roomful of people than you would in conversation.  Everyday life
gives you no practice in this.  If you can't already do it, the
best solution is to treat it as a consciously artificial trick,
like juggling.However, that doesn't mean you should talk like some kind of
announcer.  Audiences tune that out.  What you need to do is talk
in this artificial way, and yet make it seem conversational.  (Writing
is the same.  Good writing is an elaborate effort to seem spontaneous.)If you want to write out your whole presentation beforehand and
memorize it, that's ok.  That has worked for some groups in the
past.  But make sure to write something that sounds like spontaneous,
informal speech, and deliver it that way too.Err on the side of speaking slowly.  At Rehearsal Day, one of the founders
mentioned a rule actors use: if you feel you're speaking too slowly,
you're speaking at about the right speed.8. Have one person talk.Startups often want to show that all the founders are equal partners.
This is a good instinct; investors dislike unbalanced teams.  But
trying to show it by partitioning the presentation is going too
far.  It's distracting.  You can demonstrate your respect
for one another in more subtle ways.  For example, when one of the
groups presented at Demo Day, the more extroverted of the two
founders did most of the talking, but he described his co-founder
as the best hacker he'd ever met, and you could tell he meant it.Pick the one or at most two best speakers, and have them do most
of the talking.Exception: If one of the founders is an expert in some specific
technical field, it can be good for them to talk about that for a
minute or so.  This kind of "expert witness" can add credibility,
even if the audience doesn't understand all the details.  If Jobs
and Wozniak had 10 minutes to present the Apple II, it might be a good plan
to have Jobs speak for 9 minutes and have Woz speak for a minute
in the middle about some of the technical feats he'd pulled off in
the design.  (Though of course if it were actually those two, Jobs
would speak for the entire 10 minutes.)9. Seem confident.Between the brief time available and their lack of technical
background, many in the audience will have a hard time evaluating
what you're doing.  Probably the single biggest piece of evidence,
initially, will be your own confidence in it.   You have
to show you're impressed with what you've made.And I mean show, not tell.  Never say "we're passionate" or "our
product is great."  People just ignore that—or worse, write you
off as bullshitters.  Such messages must be implicit.What you must not do is seem nervous and apologetic.  If you've
truly made something good, you're doing investors a favor by
telling them about it.  If you don't genuinely believe that, perhaps
you ought to change what your company is doing.  If you don't believe
your startup has such promise that you'd be doing them a favor by
letting them invest, why are you investing your time in it?10. Don't try to seem more than you are.Don't worry if your company is just a few months old and doesn't
have an office yet, or your founders are technical people with no
business experience.  Google was like that once, and they turned out
ok.  Smart investors can see past such superficial flaws.  They're
not looking for finished, smooth presentations.  They're looking
for raw talent.  All you need to convince them of is that you're
smart and that you're onto something good.  If you try too hard to
conceal your rawness—by trying to seem corporate, or pretending
to know about stuff you don't—you may just conceal your talent.You can afford to be candid about what you haven't figured out yet.
Don't go out of your way to bring it up (e.g. by having a slide
about what might go wrong), but don't try to pretend either that
you're further along than you are.  If you're a hacker and you're
presenting to experienced investors, they're probably better at
detecting bullshit than you are at producing it.11. Don't put too many words on slides.When there are a lot of words on a slide, people just skip reading
it.  So look at your slides and ask of each word "could I cross
this out?"  This includes gratuitous clip art.  Try to get your
slides under 20 words if you can.Don't read your slides.  They should be something in the background
as you face the audience and talk to them, not something you face
and read to an audience sitting behind you.Cluttered sites don't do well in demos, especially when they're
projected onto a screen.  At the very least, crank up the font size
big enough to make all the text legible.  But cluttered sites are
bad anyway, so perhaps you should use this opportunity to make your
design simpler.12. Specific numbers are good.If you have any kind of data, however preliminary, tell the audience.
Numbers stick in people's heads.  If you can claim that the median
visitor generates 12 page views, that's great.But don't give them more than four or five numbers, and only give
them numbers specific to you.  You don't need to tell them the size
of the market you're in.  Who cares, really, if it's 500 million
or 5 billion a year?  Talking about that is like an actor at the
beginning of his career telling his parents how much Tom Hanks
makes.  Yeah, sure, but first you have to become Tom Hanks.  The
important part is not whether he makes ten million a year or a
hundred, but how you get there.13. Tell stories about users.The biggest fear of investors looking at early stage startups is
that you've built something based on your own a priori theories of
what the world needs, but that no one will actually want.  So it's
good if you can talk about problems specific users have and how you
solve them.Greg Mcadoo said one thing Sequoia looks for is the "proxy for
demand."  What are people doing now, using inadequate tools, that
shows they need what you're making?Another sign of user need is when people pay a lot for something.
It's easy to convince investors there will be demand for
a cheaper alternative to something popular, if you preserve
the qualities that made it popular.The best stories about user needs are about your own.  A remarkable
number of famous startups grew out of some need the founders had:
Apple, Microsoft, Yahoo, Google.  Experienced investors know that,
so stories of this type will get their attention.  The next best
thing is to talk about the needs of people you know personally,
like your friends or siblings.14. Make a soundbite stick in their heads.Professional investors hear a lot of pitches.  After a while they
all blur together.  The first cut is simply to be one of those
they remember.  And the way to ensure that is to create a descriptive
phrase about yourself that sticks in their heads.In Hollywood, these phrases seem to be of the form "x meets y."

In the startup world, they're usually "the x of y" or "the x y."
Viaweb's was "the Microsoft Word of ecommerce."Find one and launch it clearly (but apparently casually) in your
talk, preferably near the beginning.It's a good exercise for you, too, to sit down and try to figure
out how to describe your startup in one compelling phrase.  If you
can't, your plans may not be sufficiently focused.How to Fund a StartupHackers' Guide to InvestorsSpanish TranslationJapanese TranslationRussian Translation
Image: Casey Muller: Trevor Blackwell at Rehearsal Day, summer 2006

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

July 2006
When I was in high school I spent a lot of time imitating bad
writers.  What we studied in English classes was mostly fiction,
so I assumed that was the highest form of writing.  Mistake number
one.  The stories that seemed to be most admired were ones in which
people suffered in complicated ways.  Anything funny or
gripping was ipso facto suspect, unless it was old enough to be hard to
understand, like Shakespeare or Chaucer.  Mistake number two.  The
ideal medium seemed the short story, which I've since learned had
quite a brief life, roughly coincident with the peak of magazine
publishing.  But since their size made them perfect for use in
high school classes, we read a lot of them, which gave us the
impression the short story was flourishing.  Mistake number three.
And because they were so short, nothing really had to happen; you
could just show a randomly truncated slice of life, and that was
considered advanced.  Mistake number four.  The result was that I
wrote a lot of stories in which nothing happened except that someone
was unhappy in a way that seemed deep.For most of college I was a philosophy major.  I was very impressed
by the papers published in philosophy journals.  They were so
beautifully typeset, and their tone was just captivating—alternately
casual and buffer-overflowingly technical.  A fellow would be walking
along a street and suddenly modality qua modality would spring upon
him.  I didn't ever quite understand these papers, but I figured
I'd get around to that later, when I had time to reread them more
closely.  In the meantime I tried my best to imitate them.  This
was, I can now see, a doomed undertaking, because they weren't
really saying anything.  No philosopher ever refuted another, for
example, because no one said anything definite enough to refute.
Needless to say, my imitations didn't say anything either.In grad school I was still wasting time imitating the wrong things.
There was then a fashionable type of program called an expert system,
at the core of which was something called an inference engine.  I
looked at what these things did and thought "I could write that in
a thousand lines of code."  And yet eminent professors were writing
books about them, and startups were selling them for a year's salary
a copy.  What an opportunity, I thought; these impressive things
seem easy to me; I must be pretty sharp.  Wrong.  It was simply a
fad.  The books the professors wrote about expert systems are now
ignored.  They were not even on a path to anything interesting.
And the customers paying so much for them were largely the same
government agencies that paid thousands for screwdrivers and toilet
seats.How do you avoid copying the wrong things?  Copy only what you
genuinely like.  That would have saved me in all three cases.  I
didn't enjoy the short stories we had to read in English classes;
I didn't learn anything from philosophy papers; I didn't use expert
systems myself.  I believed these things were good because they
were admired.It can be hard to separate the things you like from the things
you're impressed with.  One trick is to ignore presentation.  Whenever
I see a painting impressively hung in a museum, I ask myself: how
much would I pay for this if I found it at a garage sale, dirty and
frameless, and with no idea who painted it?  If you walk around a
museum trying this experiment, you'll find you get some truly
startling results.  Don't ignore this data point just because it's
an outlier.Another way to figure out what you like is to look at what you enjoy
as guilty pleasures.  Many things people like, especially if they're
young and ambitious, they like largely for the feeling of virtue
in liking them.  99% of people reading Ulysses are thinking
"I'm reading Ulysses" as they do it. A guilty pleasure is
at least a pure one.  What do you read when you don't feel up to being
virtuous?  What kind of book do you read and feel sad that there's
only half of it left, instead of being impressed that you're half
way through?  That's what you really like.Even when you find genuinely good things to copy, there's another
pitfall to be avoided.  Be careful to copy what makes them good,
rather than their flaws.  It's easy to be drawn into imitating
flaws, because they're easier to see, and of course easier to copy
too.  For example, most painters in the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries used brownish colors.  They were imitating the great
painters of the Renaissance, whose paintings by that time were brown
with dirt.  Those paintings have since been cleaned, revealing
brilliant colors; their imitators are of course still brown.It was painting, incidentally, that cured me of copying the wrong
things.  Halfway through grad school I decided I wanted to try being
a painter, and the art world was so manifestly corrupt that it
snapped the leash of credulity.  These people made philosophy
professors seem as scrupulous as mathematicians.  It was so clearly
a choice of doing good work xor being an insider that I was forced
to see the distinction.  It's there to some degree in almost every
field, but I had till then managed to avoid facing it.That was one of the most valuable things I learned from painting:
you have to figure out for yourself what's 
good.  You can't trust
authorities. They'll lie to you on this one.

Comment on this essay.Chinese TranslationRomanian TranslationSpanish TranslationRussian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

July 2006I've discovered a handy test for figuring out what you're addicted
to.  Imagine you were going to spend the weekend at a friend's house
on a little island off the coast of Maine.  There are no shops on
the island and you won't be able to leave while you're there.  Also,
you've never been to this house before, so you can't assume it will
have more than any house might.What, besides clothes and toiletries, do you make a point of packing?
That's what you're addicted to.  For example, if you find yourself
packing a bottle of vodka (just in case), you may want to stop and
think about that.For me the list is four things: books, earplugs, a notebook, and a
pen.There are other things I might bring if I thought of it, like music,
or tea, but I can live without them.  I'm not so addicted to caffeine
that I wouldn't risk the house not having any tea, just for a
weekend.Quiet is another matter.  I realize it seems a bit eccentric to
take earplugs on a trip to an island off the coast of Maine.  If
anywhere should be quiet, that should.  But what if the person in
the next room snored?  What if there was a kid playing basketball?
(Thump, thump, thump... thump.)  Why risk it?  Earplugs are small.Sometimes I can think with noise.  If I already have momentum on
some project, I can work in noisy places.  I can edit an essay or
debug code in an airport.  But airports are not so bad: most of the
noise is whitish.  I couldn't work with the sound of a sitcom coming
through the wall, or a car in the street playing thump-thump music.And of course there's another kind of thinking, when you're starting
something new, that requires complete quiet.   You never
know when this will strike. It's just as well to carry plugs.The notebook and pen are professional equipment, as it were.  Though
actually there is something druglike about them, in the sense that
their main purpose is to make me feel better.  I hardly ever go
back and read stuff I write down in notebooks.  It's just that if
I can't write things down, worrying about remembering one idea gets
in the way of having the next.  Pen and paper wick ideas.The best notebooks I've found are made by a company called Miquelrius.
I use their smallest size, which is about 2.5 x 4 in.
The secret to writing on such
narrow pages is to break words only when you run out of space, like
a Latin inscription.  I use the cheapest plastic Bic ballpoints,
partly because their gluey ink doesn't seep through pages, and
partly so I don't worry about losing them.I only started carrying a notebook about three years ago.  Before
that I used whatever scraps of paper I could find.  But the problem
with scraps of paper is that they're not ordered.  In a notebook
you can guess what a scribble means by looking at the pages
around it.  In the scrap era I was constantly finding notes I'd
written years before that might say something I needed to remember,
if I could only figure out what.As for books, I know the house would probably have something to
read.  On the average trip I bring four books and only read one of
them, because I find new books to read en route.  Really bringing
books is insurance.I realize this dependence on books is not entirely good—that what
I need them for is distraction.  The books I bring on trips are
often quite virtuous, the sort of stuff that might be assigned
reading in a college class.  But I know my motives aren't virtuous.
I bring books because if the world gets boring I need to be able
to slip into another distilled by some writer.  It's like eating
jam when you know you should be eating fruit.There is a point where I'll do without books.  I was walking in
some steep mountains once, and decided I'd rather just think, if I
was bored, rather than carry a single unnecessary ounce.  It wasn't
so bad.  I found I could entertain myself by having ideas instead
of reading other people's.  If you stop eating jam, fruit starts
to taste better.So maybe I'll try not bringing books on some future trip.  They're
going to have to pry the plugs out of my cold, dead ears, however.Spanish TranslationJapanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


June 2006(This essay is derived from talks at Usenix 2006 and
Railsconf 2006.)A couple years ago my friend Trevor and I went to look at the Apple
garage.  As we stood there, he said that as a kid growing up in
Saskatchewan he'd been amazed at the dedication Jobs and Wozniak
must have had to work in a garage."Those guys must have been
freezing!"That's one of California's hidden advantages: the mild climate means
there's lots of marginal space.  In cold places that margin gets
trimmed off.  There's a sharper line between outside and inside,
and only projects that are officially sanctioned — by organizations,
or parents, or wives, or at least by oneself — get proper indoor
space.  That raises the activation energy for new ideas.  You can't
just tinker. You have to justify.Some of Silicon Valley's most famous companies began in garages:
Hewlett-Packard in 1938, Apple in 1976, Google in 1998.  In Apple's
case the garage story is a bit of an urban legend.  Woz says all
they did there was assemble some computers, and that he did all the
actual design of the Apple I and Apple II in his apartment or his
cube at HP.  
[1]
This was apparently too marginal even for Apple's PR
people.By conventional standards, Jobs and Wozniak were marginal people
too.  Obviously they were smart, but they can't have looked good
on paper.  They were at the time a pair of college dropouts with
about three years of school between them, and hippies to boot.
Their previous business experience consisted of making "blue boxes"
to hack into the phone system, a business with the rare distinction
of being both illegal and unprofitable.OutsidersNow a startup operating out of a garage in Silicon Valley would
feel part of an exalted tradition, like the poet in his garret, or
the painter who can't afford to heat his studio and thus has to
wear a beret indoors.  But in 1976 it didn't seem so cool.  The
world hadn't yet realized that starting a computer company was in
the same category as being a writer or a painter. It hadn't been
for long.  Only in the preceding couple years had the dramatic fall
in the cost of hardware allowed outsiders to compete.In 1976, everyone looked down on a company operating out of a garage,
including the founders.  One of the first things Jobs did when they
got some money was to rent office space.  He wanted Apple to seem
like a real company.They already had something few real companies ever have: a fabulously well
designed product.  You'd think they'd have had more confidence.
But I've talked to a lot of startup founders, and it's always this
way.  They've built something that's going to change the world, and
they're worried about some nit like not having proper business
cards.That's the paradox I want to explore: great new things often come
from the margins, and yet the people who discover them are looked
down on by everyone, including themselves.It's an old idea that new things come from the margins. I want to
examine its internal structure.  Why do great ideas come from the
margins?  What kind of ideas?  And is there anything we can do to
encourage the process?InsidersOne reason so many good ideas come from the margin is simply that
there's so much of it. There have to be more outsiders than insiders,
if insider means anything.  If the number of outsiders is huge it
will always seem as if a lot of ideas come from them, even if few
do per capita.  But I think there's more going on than this.  There
are real disadvantages to being an insider, and in some kinds of
work they can outweigh the advantages.Imagine, for example, what would happen if the government decided
to commission someone to write an official Great American Novel.
First there'd be a huge ideological squabble over who to choose.
Most of the best writers would be excluded for having offended one
side or the other.  Of the remainder, the smart ones would refuse
such a job, leaving only a few with the wrong sort of ambition.
The committee would choose one at the height of his career — that
is, someone whose best work was behind him — and hand over the
project with copious free advice about how the book should show in
positive terms the strength and diversity of the American people,
etc, etc.The unfortunate writer would then sit down to work with a huge
weight of expectation on his shoulders.  Not wanting to blow such
a public commission, he'd play it safe.  This book had better command
respect, and the way to ensure that would be to make it a tragedy.
Audiences have to be enticed to laugh, but if you kill people they
feel obliged to take you seriously.  As everyone knows, America
plus tragedy equals the Civil War, so that's what it would have to
be about. When finally
completed twelve years later, the book would be a 900-page pastiche
of existing popular novels — roughly Gone with the Wind plus
Roots.  But its bulk and celebrity would make it a bestseller
for a few months, until blown out of the water by a talk-show host's
autobiography.  The book would be made into a movie and thereupon
forgotten, except by the more waspish sort of reviewers, among whom
it would be a byword for bogusness like Milli Vanilli or Battlefield
Earth.Maybe I got a little carried away with this example.  And yet is
this not at each point the way such a project would play out?  The
government knows better than to get into the novel business, but
in other fields where they have a natural monopoly, like nuclear
waste dumps, aircraft carriers, and regime change, you'd find plenty
of projects isomorphic to this one — and indeed, plenty that were
less successful.This little thought experiment suggests a few of the disadvantages
of insider projects: the selection of the wrong kind of people, the
excessive scope, the inability to take risks, the need to seem
serious, the weight of expectations, the power of vested interests,
the undiscerning audience, and perhaps most dangerous, the tendency
of such work to become a duty rather than a pleasure.TestsA world with outsiders and insiders implies some kind of test for
distinguishing between them.  And the trouble with most tests for
selecting elites is that there are two ways to pass them: to be
good at what they try to measure, and to be good at hacking the
test itself.So the first question to ask about a field is how honest its tests
are, because this tells you what it means to be an outsider.  This
tells you how much to trust your instincts when you disagree with
authorities, whether it's worth going through the usual channels
to become one yourself, and perhaps whether you want to work in
this field at all.Tests are least hackable when there are consistent standards for
quality, and the people running the test really care about its
integrity.  Admissions to PhD programs in the hard sciences are
fairly honest, for example.  The professors will get whoever they
admit as their own grad students, so they try hard to choose well,
and they have a fair amount of data to go on.  Whereas undergraduate
admissions seem to be much more hackable.One way to tell whether a field has consistent standards is the
overlap between the leading practitioners and the people who teach
the subject in universities.  At one end of the scale you have
fields like math and physics, where nearly all the teachers are
among the best practitioners.  In the middle are medicine, law,
history, architecture, and computer science, where many are.  At
the bottom are business, literature, and the visual arts, where
there's almost no overlap between the teachers and the leading
practitioners.  It's this end that gives rise to phrases like "those
who can't do, teach."Incidentally, this scale might be helpful in deciding what to study
in college.  When I was in college the rule seemed to be that you
should study whatever you were most interested in.  But in retrospect
you're probably better off studying something moderately interesting
with someone who's good at it than something very interesting with
someone who isn't.  You often hear people say that you shouldn't
major in business in college, but this is actually an instance of
a more general rule: don't learn things from teachers who are bad
at them.How much you should worry about being an outsider depends on the
quality of the insiders.  If you're an amateur mathematician and
think you've solved a famous open problem, better go back and check.
When I was in grad school, a friend in the math department had the
job of replying to people who sent in proofs of Fermat's last theorem
and so on, and it did not seem as if he saw it as a valuable source
of tips — more like manning a mental health hotline.  Whereas if
the stuff you're writing seems different from what English professors
are interested in, that's not necessarily a problem.Anti-TestsWhere the method of selecting the elite is thoroughly corrupt, most
of the good people will be outsiders.  In art, for example, the
image of the poor, misunderstood genius is not just one possible
image of a great artist: it's the standard image.  I'm not
saying it's correct, incidentally, but it is telling how well this
image has stuck.  You couldn't make a rap like that stick to math
or medicine.  
[2]If it's corrupt enough, a test becomes an anti-test, filtering out
the people it should select by making them to do things only the
wrong people would do.  Popularity in high school
seems to be such a test.  There are plenty of similar ones in the grownup
world.  For example, rising up through the hierarchy of the average
big company demands an attention to politics few thoughtful people
could spare.
[3]
Someone like Bill Gates can grow a company under
him, but it's hard to imagine him having the patience to climb the
corporate ladder at General Electric — or Microsoft, actually.It's kind of strange when you think about it, because lord-of-the-flies
schools and bureaucratic companies are both the default.  There are
probably a lot of people who go from one to the other and never
realize the whole world doesn't work this way.I think that's one reason big companies are so often blindsided by
startups.  
People at big companies don't realize the extent to which
they live in an environment that is one large, ongoing test for the
wrong qualities.If you're an outsider, your best chances for beating insiders are
obviously in fields where corrupt tests select a lame elite.  But
there's a catch: if the tests are corrupt, your victory won't be
recognized, at least in your lifetime.  You may feel you don't need
that, but history suggests it's dangerous to work in fields with
corrupt tests.  You may beat the insiders, and yet not do as good
work, on an absolute scale, as you would in a field that was more
honest.Standards in art, for example, were almost as corrupt in the first
half of the eighteenth century as they are today.  This was the era
of those fluffy idealized portraits of countesses with their lapdogs.
Chardin 
decided to skip all that and paint ordinary things as he
saw them.  He's now considered the best of that period — and yet
not the equal of Leonardo or Bellini or Memling, who all had the
additional encouragement of honest standards.It can be worth participating in a corrupt contest, however, if
it's followed by another that isn't corrupt.  For example, it would
be worth competing with a company that can spend more than you on
marketing, as long as you can survive to the next round, when
customers compare your actual products.  Similarly, you shouldn't
be discouraged by the comparatively corrupt test of college admissions,
because it's followed immediately by less hackable tests.
[4]RiskEven in a field with honest tests, there are still advantages to
being an outsider.  The most obvious is that outsiders have nothing
to lose.  They can do risky things, and if they fail, so what?  Few
will even notice.The eminent, on the other hand, are weighed down by their eminence.
Eminence is like a suit: it impresses the wrong people, and it
constrains the wearer.Outsiders should realize the advantage they have here.  Being able
to take risks is hugely valuable.  Everyone values safety too much,
both the obscure and the eminent.  No one wants to look like a fool.
But it's very useful to be able to.  If most of your ideas aren't
stupid, you're probably being too conservative.  You're not bracketing
the problem.Lord Acton said we should judge talent at its best and character
at its worst.  For example, if you write one great book and ten bad
ones, you still count as a great writer — or at least, a better
writer than someone who wrote eleven that were merely good.  Whereas
if you're a quiet, law-abiding citizen most of the time but
occasionally cut someone up and bury them in your backyard, you're
a bad guy.Almost everyone makes the mistake of treating ideas as if they were
indications of character rather than talent — as if having a stupid
idea made you stupid.   There's a huge weight of tradition advising
us to play it safe.  "Even a fool is thought wise if he keeps
silent," says the Old Testament (Proverbs 17:28).Well, that may be fine advice for a bunch of goatherds in Bronze
Age Palestine.  There conservatism would be the order of the day.
But times have changed.  It might still be reasonable to stick with
the Old Testament in political questions, but materially the world
now has a lot more state.  Tradition is less of a guide, not just
because things change faster, but because the space of possibilities
is so large.   The more complicated the world gets, the more valuable
it is to be willing to look like a fool.DelegationAnd yet the more successful people become, the more heat they get
if they screw up — or even seem to screw up.  In this respect, as
in many others, the eminent are prisoners of their own success.  So
the best way to understand the advantages of being an outsider may
be to look at the disadvantages of being an insider.If you ask eminent people what's wrong with their lives, the first
thing they'll complain about is the lack of time.  A friend of mine
at Google is fairly high up in the company and went to work for
them long before they went public.  In other words, he's now rich
enough not to have to work.  I asked him if he could still endure
the annoyances of having a job, now that he didn't have to.  And
he said that there weren't really any annoyances, except — and he
got a wistful look when he said this — that he got so much
email.The eminent feel like everyone wants to take a bite out of them.
The problem is so widespread that people pretending to be eminent
do it by pretending to be overstretched.The lives of the eminent become scheduled, and that's not good for
thinking.  One of the great advantages of being an outsider is long,
uninterrupted blocks of time.  That's what I remember about grad
school: apparently endless supplies of time, which I spent worrying
about, but not writing, my dissertation.  Obscurity is like health
food — unpleasant, perhaps, but good for you.  Whereas fame tends
to be like the alcohol produced by fermentation. When it reaches
a certain concentration, it kills off the yeast that produced it.The eminent generally respond to the shortage of time by turning
into managers.  They don't have time to work.  They're surrounded
by junior people they're supposed to help or supervise.  The obvious
solution is to have the junior people do the work.  Some good
stuff happens this way, but there are problems it doesn't work so
well for: the kind where it helps to have everything in one head.For example, it recently emerged that the famous glass artist Dale
Chihuly hasn't actually blown glass for 27 years.  He has assistants
do the work for him.  But one of the most valuable sources of ideas
in the visual arts is the resistance of the medium.  That's why oil
paintings look so different from watercolors.  In principle you
could make any mark in any medium; in practice the medium steers
you.  And if you're no longer doing the work yourself, you stop
learning from this.So if you want to beat those eminent enough to delegate, one way
to do it is to take advantage of direct contact with the medium.
In the arts it's obvious how: blow your own glass, edit your own
films, stage your own plays.  And in the process pay close attention
to accidents and to new ideas you have on the fly.  This technique
can be generalized to any sort of work: if you're an outsider, don't
be ruled by plans.  Planning is often just a weakness forced on
those who delegate.Is there a general rule for finding problems best solved in one
head?  Well, you can manufacture them by taking any project usually
done by multiple people and trying to do it all yourself.  Wozniak's
work was a classic example: he did everything himself, hardware and
software, and the result was miraculous.  He claims not one bug was
ever found in the Apple II, in either hardware or software.Another way to find good problems to solve in one head is to focus
on the grooves in the chocolate bar — the places where tasks are
divided when they're split between several people.  If you want to
beat delegation, focus on a vertical slice: for example, be both
writer and editor, or both design buildings and construct them.One especially good groove to span is the one between tools and
things made with them.  For example, programming languages and
applications are usually written by different people, and this is
responsible for a lot of the worst flaws in 
programming languages.
I think every language should be designed simultaneously with a
large application written in it, the way C was with Unix.Techniques for competing with delegation translate well into business,
because delegation is endemic there.  Instead of avoiding it as a
drawback of senility, many companies embrace it as a sign of maturity.
In big companies software is often designed, implemented, and sold
by three separate types of people.  In startups one person may have
to do all three.  And though this feels stressful, it's one reason
startups win.  The needs of customers and the means of satisfying
them are all in one head.FocusThe very skill of insiders can be a weakness.  Once someone is good
at something, they tend to spend all their time doing that.  This
kind of focus is very valuable, actually.  Much of the skill of
experts is the ability to ignore false trails.  But focus has
drawbacks: you don't learn from other fields, and when a new approach
arrives, you may be the last to notice.For outsiders this translates into two ways to win.  One is to work
on a variety of things.  Since you can't derive as much benefit
(yet) from a narrow focus, you may as well cast a wider net and
derive what benefit you can from similarities between fields.  Just
as you can compete with delegation by working on larger vertical
slices, you can compete with specialization by working on larger
horizontal slices — by both writing and illustrating your book, for
example.The second way to compete with focus is to see what focus overlooks.
In particular, new things.  So if you're not good at anything yet,
consider working on something so new that no one else is either.
It won't have any prestige yet, if no one is good at it, but you'll
have it all to yourself.The potential of a new medium is usually underestimated, precisely
because no one has yet explored its possibilities.  Before 
Durer
tried making engravings, no one took them very seriously.  Engraving
was for making little devotional images — basically fifteenth century
baseball cards of saints.  Trying to make masterpieces in this
medium must have seemed to Durer's contemporaries the way that,
say, making masterpieces in 
comics 
might seem to the average person
today.In the computer world we get not new mediums but new platforms: the
minicomputer, the microprocessor, the web-based application.  At
first they're always dismissed as being unsuitable for real work.
And yet someone always decides to try anyway, and it turns out you
can do more than anyone expected.  So in the future when you hear
people say of a new platform: yeah, it's popular and cheap, but not
ready yet for real work, jump on it.As well as being more comfortable working on established lines,
insiders generally have a vested interest in perpetuating them.
The professor who made his reputation by discovering some new idea
is not likely to be the one to discover its replacement.  This is
particularly true with companies, who have not only skill and pride
anchoring them to the status quo, but money as well. The Achilles
heel of successful companies is their inability to cannibalize
themselves.  Many innovations consist of replacing something with
a cheaper alternative, and companies just don't want to see a path
whose immediate effect is to cut an existing source of revenue.So if you're an outsider you should actively seek out contrarian
projects.  Instead of working on things the eminent have made
prestigious, work on things that could steal that prestige.The really juicy new approaches are not the ones insiders reject
as impossible, but those they ignore as undignified.  For example,
after Wozniak designed the Apple II he offered it first to his
employer, HP.  They passed.  One of the reasons was that, to save
money, he'd designed the Apple II to use a TV as a monitor, and HP
felt they couldn't produce anything so declasse.LessWozniak used a TV as a monitor for the simple reason that he couldn't
afford a monitor.  Outsiders are not merely free but compelled to
make things that are cheap and lightweight.  And both are good bets
for growth: cheap things spread faster, and lightweight things
evolve faster.The eminent, on the other hand, are almost forced to work on a large
scale.  Instead of garden sheds they must design huge art museums.
One reason they work on big things is that they can: like our
hypothetical novelist, they're flattered by such opportunities.
They also know that big projects will by their sheer bulk impress
the audience.  A garden shed, however lovely, would be easy to
ignore; a few might even snicker at it.  You can't snicker at a
giant museum, no matter how much you dislike it.  And finally, there
are all those people the eminent have working for them; they have
to choose projects that can keep them all busy.Outsiders are free of all this.  They can work on small things, and
there's something very pleasing about small things.  Small things
can be perfect; big ones always have something wrong with them.
But there's a 
magic 
in small things that goes beyond such rational
explanations.  All kids know it.  Small things have more personality.Plus making them is more fun.  You can do what you want; you don't
have to satisfy committees.  And perhaps most important, small
things can be done fast.  The prospect of seeing the finished project
hangs in the air like the smell of dinner cooking.  If you work
fast, maybe you could have it done tonight.Working on small things is also a good way to learn.  The most
important kinds of learning happen one project at a time.  ("Next
time, I won't...")  The faster you cycle through projects, the
faster you'll evolve.Plain materials have a charm like small scale.  And in addition
there's the challenge of making do with less.  Every designer's
ears perk up at the mention of that game, because it's a game you
can't lose.  Like the JV playing the varsity, if you even tie, you
win.  So paradoxically there are cases where fewer resources yield
better results, because the designers' pleasure at their own ingenuity
more than compensates.
[5]So if you're an outsider, take advantage of your ability to make
small and inexpensive things.  Cultivate the pleasure and simplicity
of that kind of work; one day you'll miss it.ResponsibilityWhen you're old and eminent, what will you miss about being young
and obscure?  What people seem to miss most is the lack of
responsibilities.Responsibility is an occupational disease of eminence.  In principle
you could avoid it, just as in principle you could avoid getting
fat as you get old, but few do.  I sometimes suspect that responsibility
is a trap and that the most virtuous route would be to shirk it,
but regardless it's certainly constraining.When you're an outsider you're constrained too, of course.  You're
short of money, for example.  But that constrains you in different
ways.  How does responsibility constrain you?  The worst thing is
that it allows you not to focus on real work.  Just as the most
dangerous forms of 
procrastination 
are those that seem like work,
the danger of responsibilities is not just that they can consume a
whole day, but that they can do it without setting off the
kind of alarms you'd set off if you spent a whole day sitting on a
park bench.A lot of the pain of being an outsider is being aware of one's own
procrastination.  But this is actually a good thing.  You're at
least close enough to work that the smell of it makes you hungry.As an outsider, you're just one step away from getting things done.
A huge step, admittedly, and one that most people never seem to
make, but only one step.  If you can summon up the energy to get
started, you can work on projects with an intensity (in both senses)
that few insiders can match.  For insiders work turns into a duty,
laden with responsibilities and expectations.  It's never so pure
as it was when they were young.Work like a dog being taken for a walk, instead of an ox being yoked
to the plow.  That's what they miss.AudienceA lot of outsiders make the mistake of doing the opposite; they
admire the eminent so much that they copy even their flaws.  Copying
is a good way to learn, but copy the right things.  When I was in
college I imitated the pompous diction of famous professors.  But
this wasn't what made them eminent — it was more a flaw their
eminence had allowed them to sink into.   Imitating it was like
pretending to have gout in order to seem rich.Half the distinguishing qualities of the eminent are actually
disadvantages.  Imitating these is not only a waste of time, but
will make you seem a fool to your models, who are often well aware
of it.What are the genuine advantages of being an insider?  The greatest
is an audience.  It often seems to outsiders that the great advantage
of insiders is money — that they have the resources to do what they
want.  But so do people who inherit money, and that doesn't seem
to help, not as much as an audience.  It's good for morale to know
people want to see what you're making; it draws work out of you.If I'm right that the defining advantage of insiders is an audience,
then we live in exciting times, because just in the last ten years
the Internet has made audiences a lot more liquid.  Outsiders don't
have to content themselves anymore with a proxy audience of a few
smart friends.  Now, thanks to the Internet, they can start to grow
themselves actual audiences.  This is great news for the marginal,
who retain the advantages of outsiders while increasingly being
able to siphon off what had till recently been the prerogative of
the elite.Though the Web has been around for more than ten years, I think
we're just beginning to see its democratizing effects.  Outsiders
are still learning how to steal audiences.  But more importantly,
audiences are still learning how to be stolen — they're still just
beginning to realize how much 
deeper bloggers can dig than
journalists, how much
more interesting 
a democratic news site can be than a
front page controlled by editors, and how much
funnier
a bunch of kids
with webcams can be than mass-produced sitcoms.The big media companies shouldn't worry that people will post their
copyrighted material on YouTube.  They should worry that people
will post their own stuff on YouTube, and audiences will watch that
instead.HackingIf I had to condense the power of the marginal into one sentence
it would be: just try hacking something together.  That phrase draws
in most threads I've mentioned here.   Hacking something together
means deciding what to do as you're doing it, not a subordinate
executing the vision of his boss.  It implies the result won't
be pretty, because it will be made quickly out of inadequate
materials.  It may work, but it won't be the sort of thing the
eminent would want to put their name on.  Something hacked together
means something that barely solves the problem, or maybe doesn't
solve the problem at all, but another you discovered en route.  But
that's ok, because the main value of that initial version is not the
thing itself, but what it leads to.  Insiders who daren't walk
through the mud in their nice clothes will never make it to the
solid ground on the other side.The word "try" is an especially valuable component.  I disagree
here with Yoda, who said there is no try.  There is try.  It implies
there's no punishment if you fail.  You're driven by curiosity
instead of duty.  That means the wind of procrastination will be
in your favor: instead of avoiding this work, this will be what you
do as a way of avoiding other work.  And when you do it, you'll be
in a better mood.  The more the work depends on imagination, the
more that matters, because most people have more ideas when they're
happy.If I could go back and redo my twenties, that would be one thing
I'd do more of: just try hacking things together.  Like many people
that age, I spent a lot of time worrying about what I should do.
I also spent some time trying to build stuff.  I should have spent
less time worrying and more time building.  If you're not sure what
to do, make something.Raymond Chandler's advice to thriller writers was "When in doubt,
have a man come through a door with a gun in his hand."  He followed
that advice.  Judging from his books, he was often in doubt.  But
though the result is occasionally cheesy, it's never boring.  In
life, as in books, action is underrated.Fortunately the number of things you can just hack together keeps
increasing.   People fifty years ago would be astonished that one
could just hack together a movie, for example.  Now you can even
hack together distribution.  Just make stuff and put it online.InappropriateIf you really want to score big, the place to focus is the margin
of the margin: the territories only recently captured from the
insiders.  That's where you'll find the juiciest projects still
undone, either because they seemed too risky, or simply because
there were too few insiders to explore everything.This is why I spend most of my time writing 
essays lately.  The
writing of essays used to be limited to those who could get them
published.  In principle you could have written them and just shown
them to your friends; in practice that didn't work.  
[6]
An
essayist needs the resistance of an audience, just as an engraver
needs the resistance of the plate.Up till a few years ago, writing essays was the ultimate insider's
game.  Domain experts were allowed to publish essays about their
field, but the pool allowed to write on general topics was about
eight people who went to the right parties in New York.  Now the
reconquista has overrun this territory, and, not surprisingly, found
it sparsely cultivated.  There are so many essays yet unwritten.
They tend to be the naughtier ones; the insiders have pretty much
exhausted the motherhood and apple pie topics.This leads to my final suggestion: a technique for determining when
you're on the right track.  You're on the right track when people
complain that you're unqualified, or that you've done something
inappropriate.  If people are complaining, that means you're doing
something rather than sitting around, which is the first step.  And
if they're driven to such empty forms of complaint, that means
you've probably done something good.If you make something and people complain that it doesn't work,
that's a problem.  But if the worst thing they can hit you with is
your own status as an outsider, that implies that in every other
respect you've succeeded.  Pointing out that someone is unqualified
is as desperate as resorting to racial slurs. It's just a legitimate
sounding way of saying: we don't like your type around here.But the best thing of all is when people call what you're doing
inappropriate.  I've been hearing this word all my life and I only
recently realized that it is, in fact, the sound of the homing
beacon.  "Inappropriate" is the null criticism.  It's merely the
adjective form of "I don't like it."So that, I think, should be the highest goal for the marginal.  Be
inappropriate.  When you hear people saying that, you're golden.
And they, incidentally, are busted.Notes[1]
The facts about Apple's early history are from an interview 
with Steve 
Wozniak in Jessica Livingston's 
Founders at Work.[2]
As usual the popular image is several decades behind reality.
Now the misunderstood artist is not a chain-smoking drunk who pours
his soul into big, messy canvases that philistines see and say
"that's not art" because it isn't a picture of anything.  The
philistines have now been trained that anything hung on a wall
is art.  Now the misunderstood artist is a coffee-drinking vegan
cartoonist whose work they see and say "that's not art" because it
looks like stuff they've seen in the Sunday paper.[3]
In fact this would do fairly well as a definition of politics:
what determines rank in the absence of objective tests.[4]
In high school you're led to believe your whole future depends
on where you go to college, but it turns out only to buy you a couple
years. By your mid-twenties the people worth impressing
already judge you more by what
you've done than where you went to school.[5]
Managers are presumably wondering, how can I make this miracle
happen?  How can I make the people working for me do more with less?
Unfortunately the constraint probably has to be self-imposed.  If
you're expected to do more with less, then you're being
starved, not eating virtuously.[6]
Without the prospect of publication, the closest most people
come to writing essays is to write in a journal.  I find I never
get as deeply into subjects as I do in proper essays.  As the name
implies, you don't go back and rewrite journal entries over
and over for two weeks.Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, Paul Buchheit, Sarah
Harlin, Jessica Livingston, Jackie McDonough, Robert Morris, Olin
Shivers, and Chris Small for reading drafts of this, and to Chris
Small and Chad Fowler for inviting me to speak.
Japanese TranslationChinese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

May 2006(This essay is derived from a keynote at Xtech.)Startups happen in clusters.  There are a lot of them in Silicon
Valley and Boston, and few in Chicago or Miami.  A country that
wants startups will probably also have to reproduce whatever makes
these clusters form.I've claimed that the recipe is a
great university near a town smart
people like.  If you set up those conditions within the US, startups
will form as inevitably as water droplets condense on a cold piece
of metal.  But when I consider what it would take to reproduce
Silicon Valley in another country, it's clear the US is a particularly
humid environment.  Startups condense more easily here.It is by no means a lost cause to try to create a silicon valley
in another country.  There's room not merely to equal Silicon Valley,
but to surpass it.  But if you want to do that, you have to
understand the advantages startups get from being in America.1. The US Allows Immigration.For example, I doubt it would be possible to reproduce Silicon
Valley in Japan, because one of Silicon Valley's most distinctive
features is immigration.  Half the people there speak with accents.
And the Japanese don't like immigration.  When they think about how
to make a Japanese silicon valley, I suspect they unconsciously
frame it as how to make one consisting only of Japanese people.
This way of framing the question probably guarantees failure.A silicon valley has to be a mecca for the smart and the ambitious,
and you can't have a mecca if you don't let people into it.Of course, it's not saying much that America is more open to
immigration than Japan.  Immigration policy is one area where a
competitor could do better.2. The US Is a Rich Country.I could see India one day producing a rival to Silicon Valley.
Obviously they have the right people: you can tell that by the
number of Indians in the current Silicon Valley.  The problem with
India itself is that it's still so poor.In poor countries, things we take for granted are missing.  A friend
of mine visiting India sprained her ankle falling down the steps
in a railway station.  When she turned to see what had happened,
she found the steps were all different heights.  In industrialized
countries we walk down steps our whole lives and never think about
this, because there's an infrastructure that prevents such a staircase
from being built.The US has never been so poor as some countries are now.  There
have never been swarms of beggars in the streets of American cities.
So we have no data about what it takes to get from the swarms-of-beggars
stage to the silicon-valley stage.  Could you have both at once,
or does there have to be some baseline prosperity before you get a
silicon valley?I suspect there is some speed limit to the evolution
of an economy.  Economies are made out of people, and attitudes can
only change a certain amount per generation.
[1]3. The US Is Not (Yet) a Police State.Another country I could see wanting to have a silicon valley is
China.  But I doubt they could do it yet either.  China still seems
to be a police state, and although present rulers seem enlightened
compared to the last, even enlightened despotism can probably only
get you part way toward being a great economic power.It can get you factories for building things designed elsewhere.
Can it get you the designers, though?  Can imagination flourish
where people can't criticize the government?  Imagination means
having odd ideas, and it's hard to have odd ideas about technology
without also having odd ideas about politics.  And in any case,
many technical ideas do have political implications.  So if you
squash dissent, the back pressure will propagate into technical
fields. 
[2]Singapore would face a similar problem.  Singapore seems very aware
of the importance of encouraging startups.  But while energetic
government intervention may be able to make a port run efficiently,
it can't coax startups into existence.  A state that bans chewing
gum has a long way to go before it could create a San Francisco.Do you need a San Francisco?  Might there not be an alternate route
to innovation that goes through obedience and cooperation instead
of individualism?  Possibly, but I'd bet not.  Most imaginative
people seem to share a certain prickly independence,
whenever and wherever they lived.  You see it in Diogenes telling
Alexander to get out of his light and two thousand years later in
Feynman breaking into safes at Los Alamos.
[3]
Imaginative people
don't want to follow or lead.  They're most productive when everyone
gets to do what they want.Ironically, of all rich countries the US has lost the most civil
liberties recently.  But I'm not too worried yet.  I'm hoping once
the present administration is out, the natural openness of American
culture will reassert itself.4. American Universities Are Better.You need a great university to seed a silicon valley, and so far
there are few outside the US.  I asked a handful of American computer
science professors which universities in Europe were most admired,
and they all basically said "Cambridge" followed by a long pause
while they tried to think of others.  There don't seem to be many
universities elsewhere that compare with the best in America, at
least in technology.In some countries this is the result of a deliberate policy.  The
German and Dutch governments, perhaps from fear of elitism, try to
ensure that all universities are roughly equal in quality.  The
downside is that none are especially good.   The best professors
are spread out, instead of being concentrated as they are in the
US.  This probably makes them less productive, because they don't
have good colleagues to inspire them.  It also means no one university
will be good enough to act as a mecca, attracting talent from abroad
and causing startups to form around it.The case of Germany is a strange one.  The Germans invented the
modern university, and up till the 1930s theirs were the best in
the world.  Now they have none that stand out.  As I was mulling
this over, I found myself thinking: "I can understand why German
universities declined in the 1930s, after they excluded Jews.  But
surely they should have bounced back by now."  Then I realized:
maybe not.  There are few Jews left in Germany and most Jews I know
would not want to move there.  And if you took any great American
university and removed the Jews, you'd have some pretty big gaps.
So maybe it would be a lost cause trying to create a silicon valley
in Germany, because you couldn't establish the level of university
you'd need as a seed.
[4]It's natural for US universities to compete with one another because
so many are private.  To reproduce the quality of American universities
you probably also have to reproduce this.  If universities are
controlled by the central government, log-rolling will pull them
all toward the mean: the new Institute of X will end up at the
university in the district of a powerful politician, instead of
where it should be.5. You Can Fire People in America.I think one of the biggest obstacles to creating startups in Europe
is the attitude toward employment.  The famously rigid labor laws
hurt every company, but startups especially, because startups have
the least time to spare for bureaucratic hassles.The difficulty of firing people is a particular problem for startups
because they have no redundancy.  Every person has to do their
job well.But the problem is more than just that some startup might have a
problem firing someone they needed to.  Across industries and
countries, there's a strong inverse correlation between performance
and job security.  Actors and directors are fired at the end of
each film, so they have to deliver every time.  Junior professors
are fired by default after a few years unless the university chooses
to grant them tenure.  Professional athletes know they'll be pulled
if they play badly for just a couple games.  At the other end of
the scale (at least in the US) are auto workers, New York City
schoolteachers, and civil servants, who are all nearly impossible
to fire.  The trend is so clear that you'd have to be willfully
blind not to see it.Performance isn't everything, you say?  Well, are auto workers,
schoolteachers, and civil servants happier than actors,
professors, and professional athletes?European public opinion will apparently tolerate people being fired
in industries where they really care about performance.  Unfortunately
the only industry they care enough about so far is soccer.  But
that is at least a precedent.6. In America Work Is Less Identified with Employment.The problem in more traditional places like Europe and Japan goes
deeper than the employment laws.  More dangerous is the attitude
they reflect: that an employee is a kind of servant, whom the
employer has a duty to protect.  It used to be that way in America
too.  In 1970 you were still supposed to get a job with a big
company, for whom ideally you'd work your whole career.  In return
the company would take care of you: they'd try not to fire you,
cover your medical expenses, and support you in old age.Gradually employment has been shedding such paternalistic overtones
and becoming simply an economic exchange.  But the importance of
the new model is not just that it makes it easier for startups to
grow.  More important, I think, is that it it makes it easier for
people to start startups.Even in the US most kids graduating from college still think they're
supposed to get jobs, as if you couldn't be productive without being
someone's employee.  But the less you identify work with employment,
the easier it becomes to start a startup.  When you see your career
as a series of different types of work, instead of a lifetime's
service to a single employer, there's less risk in starting your
own company, because you're only replacing one segment instead of
discarding the whole thing.The old ideas are so powerful that even the most successful startup
founders have had to struggle against them.  A year after the
founding of Apple, Steve Wozniak still hadn't quit HP.  He still
planned to work there for life.  And when Jobs found someone to
give Apple serious venture funding, on the condition that Woz quit,
he initially refused, arguing that he'd designed both the Apple I
and the Apple II while working at HP, and there was no reason he
couldn't continue.7.  America Is Not Too Fussy.If there are any laws regulating businesses, you can assume larval
startups will break most of them, because they don't know what the
laws are and don't have time to find out.For example, many startups in America begin in places where it's
not really legal to run a business.  Hewlett-Packard, Apple, and
Google were all run out of garages.  Many more startups, including
ours, were initially run out of apartments.  If the laws against
such things were actually enforced, most startups wouldn't happen.That could be a problem in fussier countries.  If Hewlett and Packard
tried running an electronics company out of their garage in
Switzerland, the old lady next door would report them to the municipal
authorities.But the worst problem in other countries is probably the effort
required just to start a company.  A friend of mine started a company
in Germany in the early 90s, and was shocked to discover, among
many other regulations, that you needed $20,000 in capital to
incorporate.  That's one reason I'm not typing this on an Apfel
laptop.  Jobs and Wozniak couldn't have come up with that kind of
money in a company financed by selling a VW bus and an HP calculator.
We couldn't have started Viaweb either.
[5]Here's a tip for governments that want to encourage startups: read
the stories of existing startups, and then try to simulate what
would have happened in your country.  When you hit something that
would have killed Apple, prune it off.Startups are marginal.  
They're started by the poor and the
timid; they begin in marginal space and spare time; they're started
by people who are supposed to be doing something else; and though
businesses, their founders often know nothing about business.  Young
startups are fragile.  A society that trims its margins sharply
will kill them all.8. America Has a Large Domestic Market.What sustains a startup in the beginning is the prospect of getting
their initial product out.  The successful ones therefore make the
first version as simple as possible.  In the US they usually begin
by making something just for the local market.This works in America, because the local market is 300 million
people.  It wouldn't work so well in Sweden.  In a small country,
a startup has a harder task: they have to sell internationally from
the start.The EU was designed partly to simulate a single, large domestic
market.  The problem is that the inhabitants still speak many
different languages.  So a software startup in Sweden is still at
a disadvantage relative to one in the US, because they have to deal
with internationalization from the beginning.  It's significant
that the most famous recent startup in Europe, Skype, worked on a
problem that was intrinsically international.However, for better or worse it looks as if Europe will in a few
decades speak a single language.  When I was a student in Italy in
1990, few Italians spoke English.  Now all educated people seem to
be expected to-- and Europeans do not like to seem uneducated.  This
is presumably a taboo subject, but if present trends continue,
French and German will eventually go the way of Irish and Luxembourgish:
they'll be spoken in homes and by eccentric nationalists.9. America Has Venture Funding.Startups are easier to start in America because funding is easier
to get.  There are now a few VC firms outside the US, but startup
funding doesn't only come from VC firms.  A more important source,
because it's more personal and comes earlier in the process, is
money from individual angel investors.  Google might never have got
to the point where they could raise millions from VC funds if they
hadn't first raised a hundred thousand from Andy Bechtolsheim.  And
he could help them because he was one of the founders of Sun.  This
pattern is repeated constantly in startup hubs.  It's this pattern
that makes them startup hubs.The good news is, all you have to do to get the process rolling is
get those first few startups successfully launched.  If they stick
around after they get rich, startup founders will almost automatically
fund and encourage new startups.The bad news is that the cycle is slow.  It probably takes five
years, on average, before a startup founder can make angel investments.
And while governments might be able to set up local VC funds
by supplying the money themselves and recruiting people from existing
firms to run them, only organic growth can produce angel investors.Incidentally, America's private universities are one reason there's
so much venture capital.  A lot of the money in VC funds comes from
their endowments.  So another advantage of private universities is
that a good chunk of the country's wealth is managed by enlightened
investors.10. America Has Dynamic Typing for Careers.Compared to other industrialized countries the US is disorganized
about routing people into careers.  For example, in America people
often don't decide to go to medical school till they've finished
college.  In Europe they generally decide in high school.The European approach reflects the old idea that each person has a
single, definite occupation-- which is not far from the idea that
each person has a natural "station" in life.  If this were true,
the most efficient plan would be to discover each person's station
as early as possible, so they could receive the training appropriate
to it.In the US things are more haphazard.  But that turns out to be an
advantage as an economy gets more liquid, just as dynamic typing
turns out to work better than static for ill-defined problems.  This
is particularly true with startups.  "Startup founder" is not the
sort of career a high school student would choose.  If you ask at
that age, people will choose conservatively.  They'll choose
well-understood occupations like engineer, or doctor, or lawyer.Startups are the kind of thing people don't plan, so you're more
likely to get them in a society where it's ok to make career decisions
on the fly.For example, in theory the purpose of a PhD program is to train you
to do research.  But fortunately in the US this is another rule
that isn't very strictly enforced.  In the US most people in CS PhD
programs are there simply because they wanted to learn more.  They
haven't decided what they'll do afterward.  So American grad schools
spawn a lot of startups, because students don't feel they're failing
if they don't go into research.Those worried about America's "competitiveness" often suggest
spending more on public schools.  But perhaps America's lousy public
schools have a hidden advantage.  Because they're so bad, the kids
adopt an attitude of waiting for college.  I did; I knew I was
learning so little that I wasn't even learning what the choices
were, let alone which to choose.  This is demoralizing, but it does
at least make you keep an open mind.Certainly if I had to choose between bad high schools and good
universities, like the US, and good high schools and bad universities,
like most other industrialized countries, I'd take the US system.
Better to make everyone feel like a late bloomer than a failed child
prodigy.AttitudesThere's one item conspicuously missing from this list: American
attitudes.  Americans are said to be more entrepreneurial, and less
afraid of risk.  But America has no monopoly on this.  Indians and
Chinese seem plenty entrepreneurial, perhaps more than Americans.Some say Europeans are less energetic, but I don't believe it.  I
think the problem with Europe is not that they lack balls, but that
they lack examples.Even in the US, the most successful startup founders are often
technical people who are quite timid, initially, about the idea of
starting their own company. Few are the sort of backslapping
extroverts one thinks of as typically American.  They can usually
only summon up the activation energy to start a startup when they
meet people who've done it and realize they could too.I think what holds back European hackers is simply that they don't
meet so many people who've done it. You see that variation even
within the US.  Stanford students are more entrepreneurial than
Yale students, but not because of some difference in their characters;
the Yale students just have fewer examples.I admit there seem to be different attitudes toward ambition in
Europe and the US.  In the US it's ok to be overtly ambitious, and
in most of Europe it's not.  But this can't be an intrinsically
European quality; previous generations of Europeans were as ambitious
as Americans.  What happened?  My hypothesis is that ambition was
discredited by the terrible things ambitious people did in the first
half of the twentieth century.  Now swagger is out. (Even now the
image of a very ambitious German presses a button or two, doesn't
it?)It would be surprising if European attitudes weren't affected by
the disasters of the twentieth century.  It takes a while to be
optimistic after events like that.  But ambition is human nature.
Gradually it will re-emerge.
[6]How To Do BetterI don't mean to suggest by this list that America is the perfect
place for startups.  It's the best place so far, but the sample
size is small, and "so far" is not very long.   On historical time 
scales, what we have now is just a
prototype.So let's look at Silicon Valley the way you'd look at a product
made by a competitor.  What weaknesses could you exploit?  How could
you make something users would like better?  The users in this case
are those critical few thousand people you'd like to move to your
silicon valley.To start with, Silicon Valley is too far from San Francisco.  Palo
Alto, the original ground zero, is about thirty miles away, and the
present center more like forty.  So people who come to work in
Silicon Valley face an unpleasant choice: either live in the boring
sprawl of the valley proper, or live in San Francisco and endure
an hour commute each way.The best thing would be if the silicon valley were not merely closer
to the interesting city, but interesting itself.  And there is a
lot of room for improvement here.  Palo Alto is not so bad, but
everything built since is the worst sort of strip development.  You
can measure how demoralizing it is by the number of people who will
sacrifice two hours a day commuting rather than live there.Another area in which you could easily surpass Silicon Valley is
public transportation.  There is a train running the length of it,
and by American standards it's not bad.  Which is to say that to
Japanese or Europeans it would seem like something out of the third
world.The kind of people you want to attract to your silicon valley like
to get around by train, bicycle, and on foot.  So if you want to
beat America, design a town that puts cars last.  It will be a while
before any American city can bring itself to do that.Capital GainsThere are also a couple things you could do to beat America at the
national level.  One would be to have lower capital gains taxes.
It doesn't seem critical to have the lowest income taxes,
because to take advantage of those, people have to move.
[7]
But
if capital gains rates vary, you move assets, not yourself, so
changes are reflected at market speeds.  The lower the rate, the
cheaper it is to buy stock in growing companies as opposed to real
estate, or bonds, or stocks bought for the dividends they pay.So if you want to encourage startups you should have a low rate on
capital gains.  Politicians are caught between a rock and a hard
place here, however: make the capital gains rate low and be accused
of creating "tax breaks for the rich," or make it high and starve
growing companies of investment capital.   As Galbraith said,
politics is a matter of choosing between the unpalatable and the
disastrous.  A lot of governments experimented with the disastrous
in the twentieth century; now the trend seems to be toward the
merely unpalatable.Oddly enough, the leaders now are European countries like Belgium,
which has a capital gains tax rate of zero.ImmigrationThe other place you could beat the US would be with smarter immigration
policy.  There are huge gains to be made here.  Silicon valleys are
made of people, remember.Like a company whose software runs on Windows, those in the current
Silicon Valley are all too aware of the shortcomings of the INS,
but there's little they can do about it.  They're hostages of the
platform.America's immigration system has never been well run, and since
2001 there has been an additional admixture of paranoia.  What
fraction of the smart people who want to come to America can even
get in?  I doubt even half.  Which means if you made a competing
technology hub that let in all smart people, you'd immediately get
more than half the world's top talent, for free.US immigration policy is particularly ill-suited to startups, because
it reflects a model of work from the 1970s.  It assumes good technical
people have college degrees, and that work means working for a big
company.If you don't have a college degree you can't get an H1B visa, the
type usually issued to programmers.  But a test that excludes Steve
Jobs, Bill Gates, and Michael Dell can't be a good one.  Plus you
can't get a visa for working on your own company, only for working
as an employee of someone else's.  And if you want to apply for
citizenship you daren't work for a startup at all, because if your
sponsor goes out of business, you have to start over.American immigration policy keeps out most smart people, and channels
the rest into unproductive jobs.  It would be easy to do better.
Imagine if, instead, you treated immigration like recruiting-- if
you made a conscious effort to seek out the smartest people and get
them to come to your country.A country that got immigration right would have a huge advantage.
At this point you could become a mecca for smart people simply by
having an immigration system that let them in.A Good VectorIf you look at the kinds of things you have to do to create an
environment where startups condense, none are great sacrifices.
Great universities?  Livable towns?  Civil liberties?  Flexible
employment laws?  Immigration policies that let in smart people?
Tax laws that encourage growth?  It's not as if you have to risk
destroying your country to get a silicon valley; these are all good
things in their own right.And then of course there's the question, can you afford not to?  I
can imagine a future in which the default choice of ambitious young
people is to start their own company
rather than work for someone else's.  I'm not sure that will happen,
but it's where the trend points now.  And if that is the future,
places that don't have startups will be a whole step behind,
like those that missed the Industrial Revolution.Notes[1]
On the verge of the Industrial Revolution, England was already
the richest country in the world.  As far as such things can be
compared, per capita income in England in 1750 was higher than
India's in 1960.Deane, Phyllis, The First Industrial Revolution, Cambridge
University Press, 1965.[2]
 This has already happened once in China, during the Ming
Dynasty, when the country turned its back on industrialization at
the command of the court.  One of Europe's advantages was that it
had no government powerful enough to do that.[3]
Of course, Feynman and Diogenes were from adjacent traditions,
but Confucius, though more polite, was no more willing to be told
what to think.[4]
For similar reasons it might be a lost cause to try to establish
a silicon valley in Israel.  Instead of no Jews moving there, only
Jews would move there, and I don't think you could build a silicon
valley out of just Jews any more than you could out of just Japanese.(This is not a remark about the qualities of these groups, just their
sizes.  Japanese are only about 2% of the world population, and
Jews about .2%.)[5]
According to the World Bank, the initial capital requirement
for German companies is 47.6% of the per capita income.  Doh.World Bank, Doing Business in 2006, http://doingbusiness.org[6]
For most of the twentieth century, Europeans looked back on
the summer of 1914 as if they'd been living in a dream world.  It
seems more accurate (or at least, as accurate) to call the years
after 1914 a nightmare than to call those before a dream.  A lot
of the optimism Europeans consider distinctly American is simply
what they too were feeling in 1914.[7]
The point where things start to go wrong seems to be about
50%.  Above that people get serious about tax avoidance.  The reason
is that the payoff for avoiding tax grows hyperexponentially (x/1-x
for 0 < x < 1).  If your income tax rate is 10%, moving to Monaco
would only give you 11% more income, which wouldn't even cover the
extra cost.  If it's 90%, you'd get ten times as much income.  And
at 98%, as it was briefly in Britain in the 70s, moving to Monaco
would give you fifty times as much income.  It seems quite likely
that European governments of the 70s never drew this curve.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Matthias Felleisen, Jessica
Livingston, Robert Morris, Neil Rimer, Hugues Steinier, Brad 
Templeton, Fred Wilson, and Stephen Wolfram for reading
drafts of this, and to Ed Dumbill for inviting me to speak.French TranslationRussian TranslationJapanese TranslationArabic Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

May 2006(This essay is derived from a keynote at Xtech.)Could you reproduce Silicon Valley elsewhere, or is there something
unique about it?It wouldn't be surprising if it were hard to reproduce in other
countries, because you couldn't reproduce it in most of the US
either.  What does it take to make a silicon valley even here?What it takes is the right people.  If you could get the right ten
thousand people to move from Silicon Valley to Buffalo, Buffalo
would become Silicon Valley.  
[1]That's a striking departure from the past.  Up till a couple decades
ago, geography was destiny for cities.  All great cities were located
on waterways, because cities made money by trade, and water was the
only economical way to ship.Now you could make a great city anywhere, if you could get the right
people to move there.  So the question of how to make a silicon
valley becomes: who are the right people, and how do you get them
to move?Two TypesI think you only need two kinds of people to create a technology
hub: rich people and nerds.  They're the limiting reagents in the
reaction that produces startups, because they're the only ones
present when startups get started.  Everyone else will move.Observation bears this out: within the US, towns have become startup
hubs if and only if they have both rich people and nerds.  Few
startups happen in Miami, for example, because although it's full
of rich people, it has few nerds.  It's not the kind of place nerds
like.Whereas Pittsburgh has the opposite problem: plenty of nerds, but
no rich people.  The top US Computer Science departments are said
to be MIT, Stanford, Berkeley, and Carnegie-Mellon.  MIT yielded
Route 128.  Stanford and Berkeley yielded Silicon Valley.  But
Carnegie-Mellon?  The record skips at that point.  Lower down the
list, the University of Washington yielded a high-tech community
in Seattle, and the University of Texas at Austin yielded one in
Austin.  But what happened in Pittsburgh?  And in Ithaca, home of
Cornell, which is also high on the list?I grew up in Pittsburgh and went to college at Cornell, so I can
answer for both.  The weather is terrible,  particularly in winter,
and there's no interesting old city to make up for it, as there is
in Boston.  Rich people don't want to live in Pittsburgh or Ithaca.
So while there are plenty of hackers who could start startups,
there's no one to invest in them.Not BureaucratsDo you really need the rich people?  Wouldn't it work to have the
government invest in the nerds?  No, it would not.  Startup investors
are a distinct type of rich people.  They tend to have a lot of
experience themselves in the technology business.  This (a) helps
them pick the right startups, and (b) means they can supply advice
and connections as well as money.  And the fact that they have a
personal stake in the outcome makes them really pay attention.Bureaucrats by their nature are the exact opposite sort of people
from startup investors. The idea of them making startup investments
is comic.  It would be like mathematicians running Vogue-- or
perhaps more accurately, Vogue editors running a math journal.
[2]Though indeed, most things bureaucrats do, they do badly.   We just
don't notice usually, because they only have to compete against
other bureaucrats.  But as startup investors they'd have to compete
against pros with a great deal more experience and motivation.Even corporations that have in-house VC groups generally forbid
them to make their own investment decisions.  Most are only allowed
to invest in deals where some reputable private VC firm is willing
to act as lead investor.Not BuildingsIf you go to see Silicon Valley, what you'll see are buildings.
But it's the people that make it Silicon Valley, not the buildings.
I read occasionally about attempts to set up "technology
parks" in other places, as if the active ingredient of Silicon
Valley were the office space.  An article about Sophia Antipolis
bragged that companies there included Cisco, Compaq, IBM, NCR, and
Nortel.  Don't the French realize these aren't startups?Building office buildings for technology companies won't get you a
silicon valley, because the key stage in the life of a startup
happens before they want that kind of space.  The key stage is when
they're three guys operating out of an apartment.  Wherever the
startup is when it gets funded, it will stay.  The defining quality
of Silicon Valley is not that Intel or Apple or Google have offices
there, but that they were started there.So if you want to reproduce Silicon Valley, what you need to reproduce
is those two or three founders sitting around a kitchen table
deciding to start a company.  And to reproduce that you need those
people.UniversitiesThe exciting thing is, all you need are the people.  If you could
attract a critical mass of nerds and investors to live somewhere,
you could reproduce Silicon Valley.  And both groups are highly
mobile.  They'll go where life is good.  So what makes a place good
to them?What nerds like is other nerds.  Smart people will go wherever other
smart people are.  And in particular, to great universities.  In
theory there could be other ways to attract them, but so far
universities seem to be indispensable.  Within the US, there are
no technology hubs without first-rate universities-- or at least,
first-rate computer science departments.So if you want to make a silicon valley, you not only need a
university, but one of the top handful in the world.  It has to be
good enough to act as a magnet, drawing the best people from thousands
of miles away.  And that means it has to stand up to existing magnets
like MIT and Stanford.This sounds hard.  Actually it might be easy.  My professor friends,
when they're deciding where they'd like to work, consider one thing
above all: the quality of the other faculty.  What attracts professors
is good colleagues.  So if you managed to recruit, en masse, a
significant number of the best young researchers, you could create
a first-rate university from nothing overnight.  And you could do
that for surprisingly little.  If you paid 200 people hiring bonuses
of $3 million apiece, you could put together a faculty that would
bear comparison with any in the world.  And from that point the
chain reaction would be self-sustaining.  So whatever it costs to
establish a mediocre university, for an additional half billion or
so you could have a great one.  
[3]PersonalityHowever, merely creating a new university would not be enough to
start a silicon valley. The university is just the seed.  It has
to be planted in the right soil, or it won't germinate.  Plant it
in the wrong place, and you just create Carnegie-Mellon.To spawn startups, your university has to be in a town that has
attractions other than the university.  It has to be a place where
investors want to live, and students want to stay after they graduate.The two like much the same things, because most startup investors
are nerds themselves.  So what do nerds look for in a town?  Their
tastes aren't completely different from other people's, because a
lot of the towns they like most in the US are also big tourist
destinations: San Francisco, Boston, Seattle.   But their tastes
can't be quite mainstream either, because they dislike other big
tourist destinations, like New York, Los Angeles, and Las Vegas.There has been a lot written lately about the "creative class." The
thesis seems to be that as wealth derives increasingly from ideas,
cities will prosper only if they attract those who have them.  That
is certainly true; in fact it was the basis of Amsterdam's prosperity
400 years ago.A lot of nerd tastes they share with the creative class in general.
For example, they like well-preserved old neighborhoods instead of
cookie-cutter suburbs, and locally-owned shops and restaurants
instead of national chains.  Like the rest of the creative class,
they want to live somewhere with personality.What exactly is personality?  I think it's the feeling that each
building is the work of a distinct group of people.  A town with
personality is one that doesn't feel mass-produced.  So if you want
to make a startup hub-- or any town to attract the "creative class"--
you probably have to ban large development projects.
When a large tract has been developed by a single organization, you
can always tell. 
[4]Most towns with personality are old, but they don't have to be.
Old towns have two advantages: they're denser, because they were
laid out before cars, and they're more varied, because they were
built one building at a time.  You could have both now.  Just have
building codes that ensure density, and ban large scale developments.A corollary is that you have to keep out the biggest developer of
all: the government.  A government that asks "How can we build a
silicon valley?" has probably ensured failure by the way they framed
the question.  You don't build a silicon valley; you let one grow.NerdsIf you want to attract nerds, you need more than a town with
personality.  You need a town with the right personality.  Nerds
are a distinct subset of the creative class, with different tastes
from the rest.  You can see this most clearly in New York, which
attracts a lot of creative people, but few nerds. 
[5]What nerds like is the kind of town where people walk around smiling.
This excludes LA, where no one walks at all, and also New York,
where people walk, but not smiling. When I was in grad school in
Boston, a friend came to visit from New York.  On the subway back
from the airport she asked "Why is everyone smiling?"  I looked and
they weren't smiling.  They just looked like they were compared to
the facial expressions she was used to.If you've lived in New York, you know where these facial expressions
come from.  It's the kind of place where your mind may be excited,
but your body knows it's having a bad time.  People don't so much
enjoy living there as endure it for the sake of the excitement.
And if you like certain kinds of excitement, New York is incomparable.
It's a hub of glamour, a magnet for all the shorter half-life
isotopes of style and fame.Nerds don't care about glamour, so to them the appeal of New York
is a mystery.  People who like New York will pay a fortune for a
small, dark, noisy apartment in order to live in a town where the
cool people are really cool.  A nerd looks at that deal and sees
only: pay a fortune for a small, dark, noisy apartment.Nerds will pay a premium to live in a town where the smart people
are really smart, but you don't have to pay as much for that.  It's
supply and demand: glamour is popular, so you have to pay a lot for
it.Most nerds like quieter pleasures.  They like cafes instead of
clubs; used bookshops instead of fashionable clothing shops; hiking
instead of dancing; sunlight instead of tall buildings.  A nerd's
idea of paradise is Berkeley or Boulder.YouthIt's the young nerds who start startups, so it's those specifically
the city has to appeal to.  The startup hubs in the US are all
young-feeling towns.  This doesn't mean they have to be new.
Cambridge has the oldest town plan in America, but it feels young
because it's full of students.What you can't have, if you want to create a silicon valley, is a
large, existing population of stodgy people.  It would be a waste
of time to try to reverse the fortunes of a declining industrial town
like Detroit or Philadelphia by trying to encourage startups.  Those
places have too much momentum in the wrong direction.  You're better
off starting with a blank slate in the form of a small town.  Or
better still, if there's a town young people already flock to, that
one.The Bay Area was a magnet for the young and optimistic for decades
before it was associated with technology.  It was a place people
went in search of something new.  And so it became synonymous with
California nuttiness.  There's still a lot of that there.  If you
wanted to start a new fad-- a new way to focus one's "energy," for
example, or a new category of things not to eat-- the Bay Area would
be the place to do it.  But a place that tolerates oddness in the
search for the new is exactly what you want in a startup hub, because
economically that's what startups are.  Most good startup ideas
seem a little crazy; if they were obviously good ideas, someone
would have done them already.(How many people are going to want computers in their houses?
What, another search engine?)That's the connection between technology and liberalism.  Without
exception the high-tech cities in the US are also the most liberal.
But it's not because liberals are smarter that this is so.  It's
because liberal cities tolerate odd ideas, and smart people by
definition have odd ideas.Conversely, a town that gets praised for being "solid" or representing
"traditional values" may be a fine place to live, but it's never
going to succeed as a startup hub.  The 2004 presidential election,
though a disaster in other respects, conveniently supplied us with
a county-by-county 
map of such places.  
[6]To attract the young, a town must have an intact center.  In most
American cities the center has been abandoned, and the growth, if
any, is in the suburbs.  Most American cities have been turned
inside out. But none of the startup hubs has: not San Francisco,
or Boston, or Seattle.  They all have intact centers.
[7]
My guess is that no city with a dead center could be turned into a
startup hub.  Young people don't want to live in the suburbs.Within the US, the two cities I think could most easily be turned
into new silicon valleys are Boulder and Portland.  Both have the
kind of effervescent feel that attracts the young.  They're each
only a great university short of becoming a silicon valley, if they
wanted to.TimeA great university near an attractive town.  Is that all it takes?
That was all it took to make the original Silicon Valley.  Silicon
Valley traces its origins to William Shockley, one of the inventors
of the transistor.  He did the research that won him the Nobel Prize
at Bell Labs, but when he started his own company in 1956 he moved
to Palo Alto to do it.   At the time that was an odd thing to do.
Why did he?  Because he had grown up there and remembered how nice
it was.  Now Palo Alto is suburbia, but then it was a charming
college town-- a charming college town with perfect weather and San
Francisco only an hour away.The companies that rule Silicon Valley now are all descended in
various ways from Shockley Semiconductor.  Shockley was a difficult
man, and in 1957 his top people-- "the traitorous eight"-- left to
start a new company, Fairchild Semiconductor.  Among them were
Gordon Moore and Robert Noyce, who went on to found Intel, and
Eugene Kleiner, who founded the VC firm Kleiner Perkins.  Forty-two
years later, Kleiner Perkins funded Google, and the partner responsible
for the deal was John Doerr, who came to Silicon Valley in 1974 to
work for Intel.So although a lot of the newest companies in Silicon Valley don't
make anything out of silicon, there always seem to be multiple links
back to Shockley.  There's a lesson here: startups beget startups.
People who work for startups start their own.  People who get rich
from startups fund new ones.  I suspect this kind of organic growth
is the only way to produce a startup hub, because it's the only way
to grow the expertise you need.That has two important implications.  The first is that you need
time to grow a silicon valley.  The university you could create in
a couple years, but the startup community around it has to grow
organically.   The cycle time is limited by the time it takes a
company to succeed, which probably averages about five years.The other implication of the organic growth hypothesis is that you
can't be somewhat of a startup hub.  You either have a self-sustaining
chain reaction, or not.  Observation confirms this too: cities
either have a startup scene, or they don't.  There is no middle
ground.  Chicago has the third largest metropolitan area in America.
As a source of startups it's negligible compared to Seattle, number 15.The good news is that the initial seed can be quite small.  Shockley
Semiconductor, though itself not very successful, was big enough.
It brought a critical mass of experts in an important new technology
together in a place they liked enough to stay.CompetingOf course, a would-be silicon valley faces an obstacle the original
one didn't: it has to compete with Silicon Valley.  Can that be
done?  Probably.One of Silicon Valley's biggest advantages is its venture capital
firms.  This was not a factor in Shockley's day, because VC funds
didn't exist.  In fact, Shockley Semiconductor and Fairchild
Semiconductor were not startups at all in our sense.  They were
subsidiaries-- of Beckman Instruments and Fairchild Camera and
Instrument respectively.  Those companies were apparently willing
to establish subsidiaries wherever the experts wanted to live.Venture investors, however, prefer to fund startups within an hour's
drive.  For one, they're more likely to notice startups nearby.
But when they do notice startups in other towns they prefer them
to move.  They don't want to have to travel to attend board meetings,
and in any case the odds of succeeding are higher in a startup hub.The centralizing effect of venture firms is a double one: they cause
startups to form around them, and those draw in more startups through
acquisitions.  And although the first may be weakening because it's
now so cheap to start some startups, the second seems as strong as ever.
Three of the most admired
"Web 2.0" companies were started outside the usual startup hubs,
but two of them have already been reeled in through acquisitions.Such centralizing forces make it harder for new silicon valleys to
get started.  But by no means impossible.  Ultimately power rests
with the founders.  A startup with the best people will beat one
with funding from famous VCs, and a startup that was sufficiently
successful would never have to move.  So a town that
could exert enough pull over the right people could resist and
perhaps even surpass Silicon Valley.For all its power, Silicon Valley has a great weakness: the paradise
Shockley found in 1956 is now one giant parking lot.  San Francisco
and Berkeley are great, but they're forty miles away.  Silicon
Valley proper is soul-crushing suburban sprawl.  It
has fabulous weather, which makes it significantly better than the
soul-crushing sprawl of most other American cities.  But a competitor
that managed to avoid sprawl would have real leverage.  All a city
needs is to be the kind of place the next traitorous eight look at
and say "I want to stay here," and that would be enough to get the
chain reaction started.Notes[1]
It's interesting to consider how low this number could be
made.  I suspect five hundred would be enough, even if they could
bring no assets with them.  Probably just thirty, if I could pick them, 
would be enough to turn Buffalo into a significant startup hub.[2]
Bureaucrats manage to allocate research funding moderately
well, but only because (like an in-house VC fund) they outsource
most of the work of selection.  A professor at a famous university
who is highly regarded by his peers will get funding, pretty much
regardless of the proposal.  That wouldn't work for startups, whose
founders aren't sponsored by organizations, and are often unknowns.[3]
You'd have to do it all at once, or at least a whole department
at a time, because people would be more likely to come if they
knew their friends were.  And you should probably start from scratch,
rather than trying to upgrade an existing university, or much energy
would be lost in friction.[4]
Hypothesis: Any plan in which multiple independent buildings
are gutted or demolished to be "redeveloped" as a single project
is a net loss of personality for the city, with the exception of
the conversion of buildings not previously public, like warehouses.[5]
A few startups get started in New York, but less
than a tenth as many per capita as in Boston, and mostly
in less nerdy fields like finance and media.[6]
Some blue counties are false positives (reflecting the
remaining power of Democractic party machines), but there are no
false negatives.  You can safely write off all the red counties.[7]
Some "urban renewal" experts took a shot at destroying Boston's
in the 1960s, leaving the area around city hall a bleak wasteland,
but most neighborhoods successfully resisted them.Thanks to Chris Anderson, Trevor Blackwell, Marc Hedlund,
Jessica Livingston, Robert Morris, Greg Mcadoo, Fred Wilson,
and Stephen Wolfram for
reading drafts of this, and to Ed Dumbill for inviting me to speak.(The second part of this talk became Why Startups
Condense in America.)VC Deals by RegionStartup Jobs by RegionThey Would Be GodsInterview: Richard HodgsonSanta Clara Valley, 1971Scattered AbroadRussian TranslationSpanish TranslationJapanese TranslationPortuguese TranslationArabic Translation
If you liked this, you may also like
Hackers & Painters.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2006(This essay is derived from a talk at the 2006 
Startup School.)The startups we've funded so far are pretty quick, but they seem
quicker to learn some lessons than others.  I think it's because
some things about startups are kind of counterintuitive.We've now 
invested 
in enough companies that I've learned a trick
for determining which points are the counterintuitive ones:
they're the ones I have to keep repeating.So I'm going to number these points, and maybe with future startups
I'll be able to pull off a form of Huffman coding. I'll make them
all read this, and then instead of nagging them in detail, I'll
just be able to say: number four!1. Release Early.The thing I probably repeat most is this recipe for a startup: get
a version 1 out fast, then improve it based on users' reactions.By "release early" I don't mean you should release something full
of bugs, but that you should release something minimal.  Users hate
bugs, but they don't seem to mind a minimal version 1, if there's
more coming soon.There are several reasons it pays to get version 1 done fast.  One
is that this is simply the right way to write software, whether for
a startup or not.  I've been repeating that since 1993, and I haven't seen much since to
contradict it.  I've seen a lot of startups die because they were
too slow to release stuff, and none because they were too quick.
[1]One of the things that will surprise you if you build something
popular is that you won't know your users.  Reddit now has almost half a million
unique visitors a month.  Who are all those people?  They have no
idea.  No web startup does.  And since you don't know your users,
it's dangerous to guess what they'll like.  Better to release
something and let them tell you.Wufoo took this to heart and released
their form-builder before the underlying database.  You can't even
drive the thing yet, but 83,000 people came to sit in the driver's
seat and hold the steering wheel.  And Wufoo got valuable feedback
from it: Linux users complained they used too much Flash, so they
rewrote their software not to.  If they'd waited to release everything
at once, they wouldn't have discovered this problem till it was
more deeply wired in.Even if you had no users, it would still be important to release
quickly, because for a startup the initial release acts as a shakedown
cruise.  If anything major is broken-- if the idea's no good,
for example, or the founders hate one another-- the stress of getting
that first version out will expose it.  And if you have such problems
you want to find them early.Perhaps the most important reason to release early, though, is that
it makes you work harder.  When you're working on something that
isn't released, problems are intriguing.  In something that's out
there, problems are alarming.  There is a lot more urgency once you
release.  And I think that's precisely why people put it off.  They
know they'll have to work a lot harder once they do. 
[2]2. Keep Pumping Out Features.Of course, "release early" has a second component, without which
it would be bad advice.  If you're going to start with something
that doesn't do much, you better improve it fast.What I find myself repeating is "pump out features."  And this rule
isn't just for the initial stages.  This is something all startups
should do for as long as they want to be considered startups.I don't mean, of course, that you should make your application ever
more complex.  By "feature" I mean one unit of hacking-- one quantum
of making users' lives better.As with exercise, improvements beget improvements.  If you run every
day, you'll probably feel like running tomorrow.  But if you skip
running for a couple weeks, it will be an effort to drag yourself
out.  So it is with hacking: the more ideas you implement, the more
ideas you'll have.  You should make your system better at least in
some small way every day or two.This is not just a good way to get development done; it is also a
form of marketing.  Users love a site that's constantly improving.
In fact, users expect a site to improve.  Imagine if you visited a
site that seemed very good, and then returned two months later and
not one thing had changed.  Wouldn't it start to seem lame? 
[3]They'll like you even better when you improve in response to their
comments, because customers are used to companies ignoring them.
If you're the rare exception-- a company that actually listens--
you'll generate fanatical loyalty.  You won't need to advertise,
because your users will do it for you.This seems obvious too, so why do I have to keep repeating it?  I
think the problem here is that people get used to how things are.
Once a product gets past the stage where it has glaring flaws, you
start to get used to it, and gradually whatever features it happens
to have become its identity.  For example, I doubt many people at
Yahoo (or Google for that matter) realized how much better web mail
could be till Paul Buchheit showed them.I think the solution is to assume that anything you've made is far
short of what it could be.  Force yourself, as a sort of intellectual
exercise, to keep thinking of improvements.  Ok, sure, what you
have is perfect.  But if you had to change something, what would
it be?If your product seems finished, there are two possible explanations:
(a) it is finished, or (b) you lack imagination.  Experience suggests
(b) is a thousand times more likely.3. Make Users Happy.Improving constantly is an instance of a more general rule: make
users happy.  One thing all startups have in common is that they
can't force anyone to do anything.  They can't force anyone to use
their software, and they can't force anyone to do deals with them.
A startup has to sing for its supper.  That's why the successful
ones make great things.  They have to, or die.When you're running a startup you feel like a little bit of debris
blown about by powerful winds.  The most powerful wind is users.
They can either catch you and loft you up into the sky, as they did
with Google, or leave you flat on the pavement, as they do with
most startups.  Users are a fickle wind, but more powerful than any
other.  If they take you up, no competitor can keep you down.As a little piece of debris, the rational thing for you to do is
not to lie flat, but to curl yourself into a shape the wind will
catch.I like the wind metaphor because it reminds you how impersonal the
stream of traffic is.  The vast majority of people who visit your
site will be casual visitors.  It's them you have to design your
site for.  The people who really care will find what they want by
themselves.The median visitor will arrive with their finger poised on the Back
button.  Think about your own experience: most links you
follow lead to something lame.  Anyone who has used the web for
more than a couple weeks has been trained to click on Back after
following a link.  So your site has to say "Wait!  Don't click on
Back.  This site isn't lame.  Look at this, for example."There are two things you have to do to make people pause.  The most
important is to explain, as concisely as possible, what the hell
your site is about.  How often have you visited a site that seemed
to assume you already knew what they did?  For example, the corporate
site that says the
company makes

  enterprise content management solutions for business that enable
  organizations to unify people, content and processes to minimize
  business risk, accelerate time-to-value and sustain lower total
  cost of ownership.

An established company may get away with such an opaque description,
but no startup can.  A startup
should be able to explain in one or two sentences exactly what it
does. 
[4]
And not just to users.  You need this for everyone:
investors, acquirers, partners, reporters, potential employees, and
even current employees.  You probably shouldn't even start a company
to do something that can't be described compellingly in one or two
sentences.The other thing I repeat is to give people everything you've got,
right away.  If you have something impressive, try to put it on the
front page, because that's the only one most visitors will see.
Though indeed there's a paradox here: the more you push the good
stuff toward the front, the more likely visitors are to explore
further. 
[5]In the best case these two suggestions get combined: you tell
visitors what your site is about by showing them.  One of the
standard pieces of advice in fiction writing is "show, don't tell."
Don't say that a character's angry; have him grind his teeth, or
break his pencil in half.  Nothing will explain what your site does
so well as using it.The industry term here is "conversion."  The job of your site is
to convert casual visitors into users-- whatever your definition
of a user is.  You can measure this in your growth rate.  Either
your site is catching on, or it isn't, and you must know which.  If
you have decent growth, you'll win in the end, no matter how obscure
you are now.  And if you don't, you need to fix something.4. Fear the Right Things.Another thing I find myself saying a lot is "don't worry."  Actually,
it's more often "don't worry about this; worry about that instead."
Startups are right to be paranoid, but they sometimes fear the wrong
things.Most visible disasters are not so alarming as they seem.  Disasters
are normal in a startup: a founder quits, you discover a patent
that covers what you're doing, your servers keep crashing, you run
into an insoluble technical problem, you have to change your name,
a deal falls through-- these are all par for the course.  They won't
kill you unless you let them.Nor will most competitors.  A lot of startups worry "what if Google
builds something like us?"  Actually big companies are not the ones
you have to worry about-- not even Google.  The people at Google
are smart, but no smarter than you; they're not as motivated, because
Google is not going to go out of business if this one product fails;
and even at Google they have a lot of bureaucracy to slow them down.What you should fear, as a startup, is not the established players,
but other startups you don't know exist yet.  They're way more
dangerous than Google because, like you, they're cornered animals.Looking just at existing competitors can give you a false sense of
security.  You should compete against what someone else could be
doing, not just what you can see people doing.  A corollary is that
you shouldn't relax just because you have no visible competitors
yet.  No matter what your idea, there's someone else out there
working on the same thing.That's the downside of it being easier to start a startup: more people
are doing it.  But I disagree with Caterina Fake when she says that
makes this a bad time to start a startup.  More people are starting
startups, but not as many more as could.  Most college graduates
still think they have to get a job.  The average person can't ignore
something that's been beaten into their head since they were three
just because serving web pages recently got a lot cheaper.And in any case, competitors are not the biggest threat.  Way more
startups hose themselves than get crushed by competitors.  There
are a lot of ways to do it, but the three main ones are internal
disputes, inertia, and ignoring users.  Each is, by itself, enough
to kill you.  But if I had to pick the worst, it would be ignoring
users.  If you want a recipe for a startup that's going to die,
here it is: a couple of founders who have some great idea they know
everyone is going to love, and that's what they're going to build,
no matter what.Almost everyone's initial plan is broken.  If companies stuck to
their initial plans, Microsoft would be selling programming languages,
and Apple would be selling printed circuit boards.  In both cases
their customers told them what their business should be-- and they
were smart enough to listen.As Richard Feynman said, the imagination of nature is greater than
the imagination of man.  You'll find more interesting things by
looking at the world than you could ever produce just by thinking.
This principle is very powerful.  It's why the best abstract painting
still falls short of Leonardo, for example.  And it applies to
startups too.  No idea for a product could ever be so clever as the
ones you can discover by smashing a beam of prototypes into a beam
of users.5. Commitment Is a Self-Fulfilling Prophecy.I now have enough experience with startups to be able to say what
the most important quality is in a startup founder, and it's not
what you might think.  The most important quality in a startup
founder is determination.  Not intelligence-- determination.This is a little depressing.  I'd like to believe Viaweb succeeded
because we were smart, not merely determined.  A lot of people in
the startup world want to believe that.  Not just founders, but
investors too.  They like the idea of inhabiting a world ruled by
intelligence.  And you can tell they really believe this, because
it affects their investment decisions.Time after time VCs invest in startups founded by eminent professors.
This may work in biotech, where a lot of startups simply commercialize
existing research, but in software you want to invest in students,
not professors.  Microsoft, Yahoo, and Google were all founded by
people who dropped out of school to do it.  What students lack in
experience they more than make up in dedication.Of course, if you want to get rich, it's not enough merely to be
determined.  You have to be smart too, right?  I'd like to think
so, but I've had an experience that convinced me otherwise: I spent
several years living in New York.You can lose quite a lot in the brains department and it won't kill
you.  But lose even a little bit in the commitment department, and
that will kill you very rapidly.Running a startup is like walking on your hands: it's possible, but
it requires extraordinary effort.  If an ordinary employee were
asked to do the things a startup founder has to, he'd be very
indignant.  Imagine if you were hired at some big company, and in
addition to writing software ten times faster than you'd ever had
to before, they expected you to answer support calls, administer
the servers, design the web site, cold-call customers, find the
company office space, and go out and get everyone lunch.And to do all this not in the calm, womb-like atmosphere of a big
company, but against a backdrop of constant disasters.  That's the
part that really demands determination.  In a startup, there's
always some disaster happening.  So if you're the least bit inclined
to find an excuse to quit, there's always one right there.But if you lack commitment, chances are it will have been hurting
you long before you actually quit.  Everyone who deals with startups
knows how important commitment is, so if they sense you're ambivalent,
they won't give you much attention.  If you lack commitment, you'll
just find that for some mysterious reason good things happen to
your competitors but not to you.  If you lack commitment, it will
seem to you that you're unlucky.Whereas if you're determined to stick around, people will pay
attention to you, because odds are they'll have to deal with you
later.  You're a local, not just a tourist, so everyone has to come
to terms with you.At Y Combinator we sometimes mistakenly fund teams who have the
attitude that they're going to give this startup thing a shot for
three months, and if something great happens, they'll stick with
it-- "something great" meaning either that someone wants to buy
them or invest millions of dollars in them.  But if this is your
attitude, "something great" is very unlikely to happen to you,
because both acquirers and investors judge you by your level of
commitment.If an acquirer thinks you're going to stick around no matter what,
they'll be more likely to buy you, because if they don't and you
stick around, you'll probably grow, your price will go up, and
they'll be left wishing they'd bought you earlier.  Ditto for
investors.  What really motivates investors, even big VCs, is not
the hope of good returns, but the fear of missing out. 
[6]
So if
you make it clear you're going to succeed no matter what, and the only
reason you need them is to make it happen a little faster, you're
much more likely to get money.You can't fake this.  The only way to convince everyone that you're
ready to fight to the death is actually to be ready to.You have to be the right kind of determined, though.  I carefully
chose the word determined rather than stubborn, because stubbornness
is a disastrous quality in a startup.  You have to be determined,
but flexible, like a running back.  A successful running back doesn't
just put his head down and try to run through people.  He improvises:
if someone appears in front of him, he runs around them; if someone
tries to grab him, he spins out of their grip; he'll even run in
the wrong direction briefly if that will help.  The one thing he'll
never do is stand still. 
[7]6. There Is Always Room.I was talking recently to a startup founder about whether it might
be good to add a social component to their software.  He said he
didn't think so, because the whole social thing was tapped out.
Really?  So in a hundred years the only social networking sites
will be the Facebook, MySpace, Flickr, and Del.icio.us?  Not likely.There is always room for new stuff.  At every point in history,
even the darkest bits of the dark ages, people were discovering
things that made everyone say "why didn't anyone think of that
before?"  We know this continued to be true up till 2004, when the
Facebook was founded-- though strictly speaking someone else did
think of that.The reason we don't see the opportunities all around us is that we
adjust to however things are, and assume that's how things have to
be.  For example, it would seem crazy to most people to try to make
a better search engine than Google.  Surely that field, at least,
is tapped out.  Really?  In a hundred years-- or even twenty-- are
people still going to search for information using something like
the current Google?  Even Google probably doesn't think that.In particular, I don't think there's any limit to the number of
startups.  Sometimes you hear people saying "All these guys starting
startups now are going to be disappointed. How many little startups
are Google and Yahoo going to buy, after all?" That sounds cleverly
skeptical, but I can prove it's mistaken.  No one proposes that
there's some limit to the number of people who can be employed in
an economy consisting of big, slow-moving companies with a couple
thousand people each.  Why should there be any limit to the number
who could be employed by small, fast-moving companies with ten each?
It seems to me the only limit would be the number of people who
want to work that hard.The limit on the number of startups is not the number that can get
acquired by Google and Yahoo-- though it seems even that should
be unlimited, if the startups were actually worth buying-- but the
amount of wealth that can be created.  And I don't think there's
any limit on that, except cosmological ones.So for all practical purposes, there is no limit to the number of
startups.  Startups make wealth, which means they make things people
want, and if there's a limit on the number of things people want,
we are nowhere near it.  I still don't even have a flying car.7. Don't Get Your Hopes Up.This is another one I've been repeating since long before Y Combinator.
It was practically the corporate motto at Viaweb.Startup founders are naturally optimistic.  They wouldn't do it
otherwise.  But you should treat your optimism the way you'd treat
the core of a nuclear reactor: as a source of power that's also
very dangerous.  You have to build a shield around it, or it will
fry you.The shielding of a reactor is not uniform; the reactor would be
useless if it were.  It's pierced in a few places to let pipes in.
An optimism shield has to be pierced too.  I think the place to
draw the line is between what you expect of yourself, and what you
expect of other people.  It's ok to be optimistic about what you
can do, but assume the worst about machines and other people.This is particularly necessary in a startup, because you tend to
be pushing the limits of whatever you're doing.  So things don't
happen in the smooth, predictable way they do in the rest of the
world.  Things change suddenly, and usually for the worse.Shielding your optimism is nowhere more important than with deals.
If your startup is doing a deal, just assume it's not going to
happen.  The VCs who say they're going to invest in you aren't.
The company that says they're going to buy you isn't.  The big
customer who wants to use your system in their whole company won't.
Then if things work out you can be pleasantly surprised.The reason I warn startups not to get their hopes up is not to save
them from being disappointed when things fall through.  It's
for a more practical reason: to prevent them from leaning their
company against something that's going to fall over, taking them
with it.For example, if someone says they want to invest in you, there's a
natural tendency to stop looking for other investors.  That's why
people proposing deals seem so positive: they want you to
stop looking.  And you want to stop too, because doing deals is a
pain.  Raising money, in particular, is a huge time sink.  So you
have to consciously force yourself to keep looking.Even if you ultimately do the first deal, it will be to your advantage
to have kept looking, because you'll get better terms.  Deals are
dynamic; unless you're negotiating with someone unusually honest,
there's not a single point where you shake hands and the deal's
done. There are usually a lot of subsidiary questions to be cleared
up after the handshake, and if the other side senses weakness-- if
they sense you need this deal-- they will be very tempted to screw
you in the details.VCs and corp dev guys are professional negotiators.  They're trained
to take advantage of weakness. 
[8]
So while they're often nice
guys, they just can't help it.  And as pros they do this more than
you.  So don't even try to bluff them.  The only way a startup can
have any leverage in a deal is genuinely not to need it.  And if
you don't believe in a deal, you'll be less likely to depend on it.So I want to plant a hypnotic suggestion in your heads: when you
hear someone say the words "we want to invest in you" or "we want
to acquire you," I want the following phrase to appear automatically
in your head: don't get your hopes up.  Just continue running
your company as if this deal didn't exist.  Nothing is more likely
to make it close.The way to succeed in a startup is to focus on the goal of getting
lots of users, and keep walking swiftly toward it while investors
and acquirers scurry alongside trying to wave money in your face.Speed, not MoneyThe way I've described it, starting a startup sounds pretty stressful.
It is.  When I talk to the founders of the companies we've funded,
they all say the same thing: I knew it would be hard, but I didn't
realize it would be this hard.So why do it?  It would be worth enduring a lot of pain and stress
to do something grand or heroic, but just to make money?  Is making
money really that important?No, not really.  It seems ridiculous to me when people take business
too seriously.  I regard making money as a boring errand to be got
out of the way as soon as possible.  There is nothing grand or
heroic about starting a startup per se.So why do I spend so much time thinking about startups?  I'll tell
you why.  Economically, a startup is best seen not as a way to get
rich, but as a way to work faster.  You have to make a living, and
a startup is a way to get that done quickly, instead of letting it
drag on through your whole life.
[9]We take it for granted most of the time, but human life is fairly
miraculous.  It is also palpably short.  You're given this marvellous
thing, and then poof, it's taken away.  You can see why people
invent gods to explain it.  But even to people who don't believe
in gods, life commands respect.  There are times in most of our
lives when the days go by in a blur, and almost everyone has a
sense, when this happens, of wasting something precious.  As Ben
Franklin said, if you love life, don't waste time, because time is
what life is made of.So no, there's nothing particularly grand about making money.  That's
not what makes startups worth the trouble.  What's important about
startups is the speed.  By compressing the dull but necessary task
of making a living into the smallest possible time, you show respect
for life, and there is something grand about that.Notes[1]
Startups can die from releasing something full of bugs, and not
fixing them fast enough, but I don't know of any that died from
releasing something stable but minimal very early, then promptly
improving it.[2]
I know this is why I haven't released Arc.  The moment I do,
I'll have people nagging me for features.[3]
A web site is different from a book or movie or desktop application
in this respect.  Users judge a site not as a single snapshot, but
as an animation with multiple frames.  Of the two, I'd say the rate of
improvement is more important to users than where you currently
are.[4]
It should not always tell this to users, however.  For example,
MySpace is basically a replacement mall for mallrats.  But it was
wiser for them, initially, to pretend that the site was about bands.[5]
Similarly, don't make users register to try your site.  Maybe
what you have is so valuable that visitors should gladly register
to get at it.  But they've been trained to expect the opposite.
Most of the things they've tried on the web have sucked-- and
probably especially those that made them register.[6]
VCs have rational reasons for behaving this way. They don't
make their money (if they make money) off their median investments.
In a typical fund, half the companies fail, most of the rest generate
mediocre returns, and one or two "make the fund" by succeeding
spectacularly.  So if they miss just a few of the most promising
opportunities, it could hose the whole fund.[7]
The attitude of a running back doesn't translate to soccer.
Though it looks great when a forward dribbles past multiple defenders,
a player who persists in trying such things will do worse in the
long term than one who passes.[8]
The reason Y Combinator never negotiates valuations
is that we're not professional negotiators, and don't want to turn
into them.[9]
There are two ways to do 
work you love: (a) to make money, then work
on what you love, or (b) to get a job where you get paid to work on
stuff you love.  In practice the first phases of both
consist mostly of unedifying schleps, and in (b) the second phase is less
secure.Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, Beau Hartshorne, Jessica 
Livingston, and Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.Romanian TranslationRussian TranslationFrench TranslationJapanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2006, rev August 2009Plato quotes Socrates as saying "the unexamined life is not worth
living."  Part of what he meant was that the proper role of humans is to
think, just as the proper role of anteaters is to poke their noses
into anthills.A lot of ancient philosophy had the quality — and I
don't mean this in an insulting way — of the kind of conversations
freshmen have late at night in common rooms:

What is our purpose?  Well, we humans are
as conspicuously different from other animals as the anteater.
In our case the distinguishing feature is the ability to reason.
So obviously that is what we should be doing, and a human who
doesn't is doing a bad job of being human — is no better than an
animal.

Now we'd give a different answer.  At least, someone Socrates's age
would.  We'd ask why we even suppose we have a "purpose" in life.
We may be better adapted for some things than others; we
may be happier doing things we're adapted for; but why assume
purpose?The history of ideas
is a history of gradually discarding the assumption that it's all
about us.  No, it turns out, the earth is not the center of the
universe — not even the center of the solar system.  No, it turns
out, humans are not created by God in his own image; they're just
one species among many, descended not merely from apes, but from
microorganisms.  Even the concept of "me" turns out to be fuzzy
around the edges if you examine it closely.The idea that we're the center of things is difficult to discard.
So difficult that there's probably room to discard more.  Richard
Dawkins made another step in that direction only in the last several
decades, with the idea of the 
selfish gene.   
No, it turns
out, we're not even the protagonists: we're just the latest model
vehicle our genes have constructed to travel around in.  And having
kids is our genes heading for the lifeboats.  Reading
that book snapped my brain out of its previous way of thinking the
way Darwin's must have when it first appeared.(Few people can experience now what Darwin's contemporaries did
when The Origin of Species was first published, because everyone
now is raised either to take evolution for granted, or to regard
it as a heresy. No one encounters the idea of natural selection for
the first time as an adult.)So if you want to discover things that have been overlooked till
now, one really good place to look is in our blind spot: in our
natural, naive belief that it's all about us.  And expect to encounter
ferocious opposition if you do.Conversely, if you have to choose between two theories, prefer the
one that doesn't center on you.This principle isn't only for big ideas.  It works in everyday life,
too.  For example, suppose you're saving a piece of cake in the fridge, and you
come home one day to find your housemate has eaten
it.  Two possible theories:

a) Your housemate did it deliberately to upset you.  He knew
you were saving that piece of cake.b) Your housemate was hungry.

I say pick b.  No one knows who said "never attribute to malice what
can be explained by incompetence," but it is a powerful idea.
Its more general version is our answer to the Greeks:
Don't see purpose where there isn't.
Or better still, the positive version:
See randomness.Korean Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

March 2006(This essay is derived from a talk at Google.)A few weeks ago I found to my surprise that I'd been granted four patents.  
This was all the more surprising
because I'd only applied for three.  The patents aren't mine, of
course.  They were assigned to Viaweb, and became Yahoo's when they
bought us.  But the news set me thinking about the question of
software patents generally.Patents are a hard problem.  I've had to advise most of the startups
we've funded about them, and despite years of experience I'm still
not always sure I'm giving the right advice.One thing I do feel pretty certain of is that if you're against
software patents, you're against patents in general.  Gradually our
machines consist more and more of software.  Things that used to
be done with levers and cams and gears are now done with loops and
trees and closures.  There's nothing special about physical embodiments
of control systems that should make them patentable, and the software
equivalent not.Unfortunately, patent law is inconsistent on this point.  Patent
law in most countries says that algorithms aren't patentable.  This
rule is left over from a time when "algorithm" meant something like
the Sieve of Eratosthenes.  In 1800, people could not see as readily
as we can that a great many patents on mechanical objects were
really patents on the algorithms they embodied.Patent lawyers still have to pretend that's what they're doing when
they patent algorithms.  You must not use the word "algorithm" in
the title of a patent application, just as you must not use the
word "essays" in the title of a book.  If you want to patent an
algorithm, you have to frame it as a computer system executing that algorithm.
Then it's mechanical; phew.  The default euphemism for algorithm
is "system and method."  Try a patent search for that phrase and
see how many results you get.Since software patents are no different from hardware patents,
people who say "software patents are evil" are saying simply "patents
are evil."  So why do so many people complain about software patents
specifically?I think the problem is more with the patent office than the concept
of software patents.  Whenever software meets government, bad things
happen, because software changes fast and government changes slow.
The patent office has been overwhelmed by both the volume and the
novelty of applications for software patents, and as a result they've
made a lot of mistakes.The most common is to grant patents that shouldn't be granted.  To
be patentable, an invention has to be more than new.  It also has
to be non-obvious.  And this, especially, is where the USPTO has
been dropping the ball. Slashdot has an icon that expresses the
problem vividly: a knife and fork with the words "patent pending"
superimposed.The scary thing is, this is the only icon they have for
patent stories.  Slashdot readers now take it for granted that a
story about a patent will be about a bogus patent.
That's how bad the problem has become.The problem with Amazon's notorious one-click patent, for example,
is not that it's a software patent, but that it's obvious.  Any
online store that kept people's shipping addresses would have
implemented this.  The reason Amazon did it first was not that they
were especially smart, but because they were one of the earliest
sites with enough clout to force customers to log in before they
could buy something. 
[1]We, as hackers, know the USPTO is letting people patent the knives
and forks of our world.  The problem is, the USPTO are not hackers.
They're probably good at judging new inventions for casting steel
or grinding lenses, but they don't understand software yet.At this point an optimist would be tempted to add "but they will
eventually."  Unfortunately that might not be true.  The problem
with software patents is an instance of a more general one: the
patent office takes a while to understand new technology.  If so,
this problem will only get worse, because the rate of technological
change seems to be increasing.  In thirty years, the patent office
may understand the sort of things we now patent as software, but
there will be other new types of inventions they understand even
less.Applying for a patent is a negotiation.  You generally apply for a
broader patent than you think you'll be granted, and the examiners
reply by throwing out some of your claims and granting others.  So
I don't really blame Amazon for applying for the one-click patent.
The big mistake was the patent office's, for not insisting on
something narrower, with real technical content.  By granting such
an over-broad patent, the USPTO in effect slept with Amazon on the
first date.  Was Amazon supposed to say no?Where Amazon went over to the dark side was not in applying for the
patent, but in enforcing it.  A lot of companies (Microsoft, for
example) have been granted large numbers of preposterously over-broad
patents,  but they keep them mainly for defensive purposes.  Like
nuclear weapons, the main role of big companies' patent portfolios
is to threaten anyone who attacks them with a counter-suit.  Amazon's
suit against Barnes & Noble was thus the equivalent of a nuclear
first strike.That suit probably hurt Amazon more than it helped them.  Barnes &
Noble was a lame site; Amazon would have crushed them anyway.  To
attack a rival they could have ignored, Amazon put a lasting black
mark on their own reputation.  Even now I think if you asked hackers
to free-associate about Amazon, the one-click patent would turn up
in the first ten topics.Google clearly doesn't feel that merely holding patents is evil.
They've applied for a lot of them.  Are they hypocrites?  Are patents
evil?There are really two variants of that question, and people answering
it often aren't clear in their own minds which they're answering.
There's a narrow variant: is it bad, given the current legal system,
to apply for patents? and also a broader one: is it bad that the
current legal system allows patents?These are separate questions.  For example, in preindustrial societies
like medieval Europe, when someone attacked you, you didn't call
the police.  There were no police.  When attacked, you were supposed
to fight back, and there were conventions about how to do it.  Was
this wrong?  That's two questions: was it wrong to take justice
into your own hands, and was it wrong that you had to?  We tend to
say yes to the second, but no to the first.  If no one else will
defend you, you have to defend yourself.  
[2]The situation with patents is similar.  Business is a kind of
ritualized warfare.  Indeed, it evolved from actual warfare: most
early traders switched on the fly from merchants to pirates depending
on how strong you seemed.  In business there are certain rules
describing how companies may and may not compete with one another,
and someone deciding that they're going to play by their own rules
is missing the point.  Saying "I'm not going to apply for patents
just because everyone else does" is not like saying "I'm not going
to lie just because everyone else does."  It's more like saying
"I'm not going to use TCP/IP just because everyone else does." Oh
yes you are.A closer comparison might be someone seeing a hockey game for the
first time, realizing with shock that the players were deliberately
bumping into one another, and deciding that one would on no account
be so rude when playing hockey oneself.Hockey allows checking.  It's part of the game.  If your team refuses
to do it, you simply lose.  So it is in business.  Under the present
rules, patents are part of the game.What does that mean in practice?  We tell the startups we fund not
to worry about infringing patents, because startups rarely get sued
for patent infringement.  There are only two reasons someone might
sue you: for money, or to prevent you from competing with them.
Startups are too poor to be worth suing for money. And in practice
they don't seem to get sued much by competitors, either.  They don't
get sued by other startups because (a) patent suits are an expensive
distraction, and (b) since the other startups are as young as they
are, their patents probably haven't issued yet. 
[3]
Nor do startups,
at least in the software business, seem to get sued much by established
competitors.  Despite all the patents Microsoft holds, I don't know
of an instance where they sued a startup for patent infringement.
Companies like Microsoft and Oracle don't win by winning lawsuits.
That's too uncertain.  They win by locking competitors out of their
sales channels.  If you do manage to threaten them, they're more
likely to buy you than sue you.When you read of big companies filing patent suits against smaller
ones, it's usually a big company on the way down, grasping at
straws.  For example, Unisys's attempts to enforce their patent on
LZW compression.  When you see a big company threatening patent
suits, sell.  When a company starts fighting over IP, it's a sign
they've lost the real battle, for users.A company that sues competitors for patent infringement is like
a defender who has been beaten so thoroughly that he turns to plead
with the referee.  You don't do that if you can still reach the
ball, even if you genuinely believe you've been fouled.  So a company
threatening patent suits is a company in trouble.When we were working on Viaweb, a bigger company in the e-commerce
business was granted a patent on online ordering, or something like
that.  I got a call from a VP there asking if we'd like to license
it.  I replied that I thought the patent was completely bogus, and
would never hold up in court.  "Ok," he replied.  "So, are you guys
hiring?"If your startup grows big enough, however, you'll start to get sued,
no matter what you do.  If you go public, for example, you'll be
sued by multiple patent trolls who hope you'll pay them off to go
away.  More on them later.In other words, no one will sue you for patent infringement till
you have money, and once you have money, people will sue you whether
they have grounds to or not.  So I advise fatalism.  Don't waste
your time worrying about patent infringement.  You're probably
violating a patent every time you tie your shoelaces.  At the start,
at least, just worry about making something great and getting lots
of users.  If you grow to the point where anyone considers you worth
attacking, you're doing well.We do advise the companies we fund to apply for patents, but not
so they can sue competitors.  Successful startups either get bought
or grow into big companies.  If a startup wants to grow into a big
company, they should apply for patents to build up the patent
portfolio they'll need to maintain an armed truce with other big
companies.  If they want to get bought, they should apply for patents
because patents are part of the mating dance with acquirers.Most startups that succeed do it by getting bought, and most acquirers
care about patents.  Startup acquisitions are usually a build-vs-buy
decision for the acquirer.  Should we buy this little startup or
build our own?  And two things, especially, make them decide not
to build their own: if you already have a large and rapidly growing
user base, and if you have a fairly solid patent application on
critical parts of your software.There's a third reason big companies should prefer buying to building:
that if they built their own, they'd screw it up.  But few big
companies are smart enough yet to admit this to themselves.  It's
usually the acquirer's engineers who are asked how hard it would
be for the company to build their own, and they overestimate their
abilities.  
[4]
A patent seems to change the balance.  It gives the
acquirer an excuse to admit they couldn't copy what you're doing.
It may also help them to grasp what's special about your technology.Frankly, it surprises me how small a role patents play in the
software business.  It's kind of ironic, considering all the dire
things experts say about software patents stifling innovation, but
when one looks closely at the software business, the most striking
thing is how little patents seem to matter.In other fields, companies regularly sue competitors for patent
infringement.  For example, the airport baggage scanning business
was for many years a cozy duopoly shared between two companies,
InVision and L-3.  In 2002 a startup called Reveal appeared, with
new technology that let them build scanners a third the size.  They
were sued for patent infringement before they'd even released a
product.You rarely hear that kind of story in our world.  The one example
I've found is, embarrassingly enough, Yahoo, which filed a patent
suit against a gaming startup called Xfire in 2005.  Xfire doesn't
seem to be a very big deal, and it's hard to say why Yahoo felt
threatened.  Xfire's VP of engineering had worked at Yahoo on similar
stuff-- in fact, he was listed as an inventor on the patent Yahoo
sued over-- so perhaps there was something personal about it.  My
guess is that someone at Yahoo goofed.  At any rate they didn't
pursue the suit very vigorously.Why do patents play so small a role in software?  I can think of
three possible reasons.One is that software is so complicated that patents by themselves
are not worth very much.  I may be maligning other fields here, but
it seems that in most types of engineering you can hand the details
of some new technique to a group of medium-high quality people and
get the desired result.  For example, if someone develops a new
process for smelting ore that gets a better yield, and you assemble
a team of qualified experts and tell them about it, they'll be able
to get the same yield.  This doesn't seem to work in software.
Software is so subtle and unpredictable that "qualified experts"
don't get you very far.That's why we rarely hear phrases like "qualified expert" in the
software business.  What that level of ability can get you is, say,
to make your software compatible with some other piece of software--
in eight months, at enormous cost.  To do anything harder you need
individual brilliance.  If you assemble a team of qualified experts
and tell them to make a new web-based email program, they'll get
their asses kicked by a team of inspired nineteen year olds.Experts can implement, but they can't design.
Or rather, expertise in implementation is the only kind most people,
including the experts themselves, can measure. 
[5]But design is a definite skill.  It's not just an airy intangible.
Things always seem intangible when you don't understand them.
Electricity seemed an airy intangible to most people in 1800.  Who
knew there was so much to know about it?  So it is with design.
Some people are good at it and some people are bad at it, and there's
something very tangible they're good or bad at.The reason design counts so much in software is probably that there
are fewer constraints than on physical things.  Building physical
things is expensive and dangerous.  The space of possible choices
is smaller; you tend to have to work as part of a larger group; and
you're subject to a lot of regulations.  You don't have any of that
if you and a couple friends decide to create a new web-based
application.Because there's so much scope for design in software, a successful
application tends to be way more than the sum of its patents.  What
protects little companies from being copied by bigger competitors
is not just their patents, but the thousand little things the big
company will get wrong if they try.The second reason patents don't count for much in our world is that
startups rarely attack big companies head-on, the way Reveal did.
In the software business, startups beat established companies by
transcending them.  Startups don't build desktop word processing
programs to compete with Microsoft Word. 
[6]
They build Writely.
If this paradigm is crowded, just wait for the next one; they run
pretty frequently on this route.Fortunately for startups, big companies are extremely good at denial.
If you take the trouble to attack them from an oblique angle, they'll
meet you half-way and maneuver to keep you in their blind spot.  To
sue a startup would mean admitting it was dangerous, and that often
means seeing something the big company doesn't want to see.  IBM
used to sue its mainframe competitors regularly, but they didn't
bother much about the microcomputer industry because they didn't
want to see the threat it posed.  Companies building web based apps
are similarly protected from Microsoft, which even now doesn't want
to imagine a world in which Windows is irrelevant.The third reason patents don't seem to matter very much in software
is public opinion-- or rather, hacker opinion.  In a recent interview,
Steve Ballmer coyly left open the possibility of attacking Linux
on patent grounds.  But I doubt Microsoft would ever be so stupid.
They'd face the mother of all boycotts.  And not just from the
technical community in general; a lot of their own people would
rebel.Good hackers care a lot about matters of principle, and they are
highly mobile.  If a company starts misbehaving, smart people won't
work there.  For some reason this seems to be more true in software
than other businesses.  I don't think it's because hackers have
intrinsically higher principles so much as that their skills are
easily transferrable.  Perhaps we can split the difference and say
that mobility gives hackers the luxury of being principled.Google's "don't be evil" policy may for this reason be the most
valuable thing they've discovered.  It's very constraining in some
ways.  If Google does do something evil, they get doubly whacked
for it: once for whatever they did, and again for hypocrisy.  But
I think it's worth it.  It helps them to hire the best people, and
it's better, even from a purely selfish point of view, to be
constrained by principles than by stupidity.(I wish someone would get this point across to the present
administration.)I'm not sure what the proportions are of the preceding three
ingredients, but the custom among the big companies seems to be not
to sue the small ones, and the startups are mostly too busy and too
poor to sue one another.  So despite the huge number of software
patents there's not a lot of suing going on.  With one exception:
patent trolls.Patent trolls are companies consisting mainly of lawyers whose whole
business is to accumulate patents and threaten to sue companies who
actually make things.  Patent trolls, it seems safe to say, are
evil.  I feel a bit stupid saying that, because when you're saying
something that Richard Stallman and Bill Gates would both agree
with, you must be perilously close to tautologies.The CEO of Forgent, one of the most notorious patent trolls, says
that what his company does is "the American way." Actually that's
not true. The American way is to make money by creating wealth, not by suing people. 
[7]
What companies like Forgent do is actually the proto-industrial
way.  In the period just before the industrial revolution, some of
the greatest fortunes in countries like England and France were
made by courtiers who extracted some lucrative right from the crown--
like the right to collect taxes on the import of silk-- and then
used this to squeeze money from the merchants in that business.  So
when people compare patent trolls to the mafia, they're more right
than they know, because the mafia too are not merely bad, but bad
specifically in the sense of being an obsolete business model.Patent trolls seem to have caught big companies by surprise.  In
the last couple years they've extracted hundreds of millions of
dollars from them.  Patent trolls are hard to fight precisely because
they create nothing.  Big companies are safe from being sued by
other big companies because they can threaten a counter-suit.  But
because patent trolls don't make anything, there's nothing they can
be sued for.  I predict this loophole will get closed fairly quickly,
at least by legal standards.  It's clearly an abuse of the system,
and the victims are powerful.
[8]But evil as patent trolls are, I don't think they hamper innovation
much.  They don't sue till a startup has made money, and by that
point the innovation that generated it has already happened.  I
can't think of a startup that avoided working on some problem because
of patent trolls.So much for hockey as the game is played now.  What about the more
theoretical question of whether hockey would be a better game without
checking?  Do patents encourage or discourage innovation?This is a very hard question to answer in the general case.  People
write whole books on the topic.  One of my main hobbies is the
history of technology, and even though I've studied the subject for
years, it would take me several weeks of research to be able to say
whether patents have in general been a net win.One thing I can say is that 99.9% of the people who express opinions
on the subject do it not based on such research, but out of a kind
of religious conviction.  At least, that's the polite way of putting
it; the colloquial version involves speech coming out of organs not
designed for that purpose.Whether they encourage innovation or not, patents were at least
intended to.  You don't get a patent for nothing.  In return for
the exclusive right to use an idea, you have to publish it,
and it was largely to encourage such openness that patents were
established.Before patents, people protected ideas by keeping them secret.  With
patents, central governments said, in effect, if you tell everyone
your idea, we'll protect it for you.  There is a parallel here to
the rise of civil order, which happened at roughly the same time.
Before central governments were powerful enough to enforce order,
rich people had private armies.  As governments got more powerful,
they gradually compelled magnates to cede most responsibility for
protecting them.  (Magnates still have bodyguards, but no longer
to protect them from other magnates.)Patents, like police, are involved in many abuses.  But in both
cases the default is something worse. The choice is not "patents
or freedom?" any more than it is "police or freedom?" The actual
questions are respectively "patents or secrecy?" and "police or
gangs?"As with gangs, we have some idea what secrecy would be like, because
that's how things used to be.  The economy of medieval Europe was
divided up into little tribes, each jealously guarding their
privileges and secrets.  In Shakespeare's time, "mystery" was
synonymous with "craft."   Even today we can see an echo of the
secrecy of medieval guilds, in the now pointless secrecy of the
Masons.The most memorable example of medieval industrial secrecy is probably
Venice, which forbade glassblowers to leave the city, and sent
assassins after those who tried.  We might like to think we wouldn't
go so far, but the movie industry has already tried to pass laws
prescribing three year prison terms just for putting movies on
public networks.  Want to try a frightening thought experiment? If
the movie industry could have any law they wanted, where would they
stop?  Short of the death penalty, one assumes, but how close would
they get?Even worse than the spectacular abuses might be the overall decrease
in efficiency that would accompany increased secrecy.  As anyone
who has dealt with organizations that operate on a "need to know"
basis can attest, dividing information up into little cells is
terribly inefficient.  The flaw in the "need to know" principle is
that you don't know who needs to know something.  An idea
from one area might spark a great discovery in another.  But the
discoverer doesn't know he needs to know it.If secrecy were the only protection for ideas, companies wouldn't
just have to be secretive with other companies; they'd have to be
secretive internally.  This would encourage what is already the
worst trait of big companies.I'm not saying secrecy would be worse than patents, just that we
couldn't discard patents for free.  Businesses would become more
secretive to compensate, and in some fields this might get ugly.
Nor am I defending the current patent system.  There is clearly a
lot that's broken about it.   But the breakage seems to affect
software less than most other fields.In the software business I know from experience whether patents
encourage or discourage innovation, and the answer is the type that
people who like to argue about public policy least like to hear:
they don't affect innovation much, one way or the other.  Most
innovation in the software business happens in startups, and startups
should simply ignore other companies' patents.  At least, that's
what we advise, and we bet money on that advice.The only real role of patents, for most startups, is as an element
of the mating dance with acquirers.  There patents do help a little.
And so they do encourage innovation indirectly, in that they give
more power to startups, which is where, pound for pound, the most
innovation happens.  But even in the mating dance, patents are of
secondary importance.  It matters more to make something great and
get a lot of users.Notes[1]
You have to be careful here, because a great discovery often
seems obvious in retrospect.  One-click ordering, however, is not
such a discovery.[2]
"Turn the other cheek" skirts the issue; the critical question
is not how to deal with slaps, but sword thrusts.[3]
Applying for a patent is now very slow, but it might actually
be bad if that got fixed.  At the moment the time it takes to get
a patent is conveniently just longer than the time it takes a startup
to succeed or fail.[4]
Instead of the canonical "could you build this?" maybe the corp
dev guys should be asking "will you build this?" or even "why haven't
you already built this?"[5]
Design ability is so hard to measure that you can't even trust
the design world's internal standards.  You can't assume that someone
with a degree in design is any good at design, or that an eminent
designer is any better than his peers.  If that worked, any company
could build products as good as Apple's just by hiring 
sufficiently qualified designers.[6]
If anyone wanted to try, we'd be interested to hear from them.
I suspect it's one of those things that's not as hard as everyone
assumes.[7]
Patent trolls can't even claim, like speculators, that they
"create" liquidity.[8]
If big companies don't want to wait for the government to take
action, there is a way to fight back themselves.  For a long time
I thought there wasn't, because there was nothing to grab onto.
But there is one resource patent trolls need: lawyers.  Big technology
companies between them generate a lot of legal business.  If they
agreed among themselves never to do business with any firm employing
anyone who had worked for a patent troll, either as an employee or
as outside counsel, they could probably starve the trolls of the
lawyers they need.Thanks to Dan Bloomberg, Paul Buchheit, Sarah Harlin, 
Jessica Livingston, and Peter Norvig
for reading drafts of this, to Joel Lehrer and Peter Eng for answering
my questions about patents, and to Ankur Pansari for inviting me
to speak.Japanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

March 2006, rev August 2009A couple days ago I found to my surprise that I'd been granted a
patent.
It issued in 2003, but no one told me.  I wouldn't know about it
now except that a few months ago, while visiting Yahoo, I happened
to run into a Big Cheese I knew from working there in the late
nineties.  He brought up something called Revenue Loop, which Viaweb
had been working on when they bought us.The idea is basically that you sort search results not in order of
textual "relevance" (as search engines did then) nor in order of
how much advertisers bid (as Overture did) but in order of the bid
times the number of transactions.  Ordinarily you'd do this for
shopping searches, though in fact one of the features of our scheme
is that it automatically detects which searches are shopping searches.If you just order the results in order of bids, you can make the
search results useless, because the first results could be dominated
by lame sites that had bid the most.  But if you order results by
bid multiplied by transactions, far from selling out, you're getting
a better measure of relevance.  What could be a better sign that
someone was satisfied with a search result than going to the site
and buying something?And, of course, this algorithm automatically maximizes the revenue
of the search engine.Everyone is focused on this type of approach now, but few were in
1998.  In 1998 it was all about selling banner ads.  We didn't know
that, so we were pretty excited when we figured out what seemed to
us the optimal way of doing shopping searches.When Yahoo was thinking of buying us, we had a meeting with Jerry
Yang in New York.  For him, I now realize, this was supposed to be
one of those meetings when you check out a company you've pretty
much decided to buy, just to make sure they're ok guys.  We weren't
expected to do more than chat and seem smart and reasonable.  He
must have been dismayed when I jumped up to the whiteboard and
launched into a presentation of our exciting new technology.I was just as dismayed when he didn't seem to care at all about it.
At the time I thought, "boy, is this guy poker-faced.  We present
to him what has to be the optimal way of sorting product search
results, and he's not even curious."  I didn't realize till much later
why he didn't care.  In 1998, advertisers were overpaying enormously
for ads on web sites.  
In 1998, if advertisers paid the maximum that traffic was worth to
them, Yahoo's revenues would have decreased.Things are different now, of course.  Now this sort of thing is all
the rage.  So when I ran into the Yahoo exec I knew from the old
days in the Yahoo cafeteria a few months ago, the first thing he
remembered was not (fortunately) all the fights I had with him, but
Revenue Loop."Well," I said, "I think we actually applied for a patent on it.
I'm not sure what happened to the application after I left.""Really?  That would be an important patent."So someone investigated, and sure enough, that patent application
had continued in the pipeline for several years after, and finally
issued in 2003.The main thing that struck me on reading it, actually, is that
lawyers at some point messed up my nice clear writing.  Some clever
person with a spell checker reduced one section to Zen-like incomprehensibility:

  Also, common spelling errors will tend to get fixed. For example,
  if users searching for "compact disc player" end up spending
  considerable money at sites offering compact disc players, then
  those pages will have a higher relevance for that search phrase,
  even though the phrase "compact disc player" is not present on
  those pages.

(That "compat disc player" wasn't a typo, guys.)For the fine prose of the original, see the provisional application
of February 1998, back when we were still Viaweb and couldn't afford
to pay lawyers to turn every "a lot of" into "considerable."
