November 2004(This is a new essay for the Japanese edition of 
Hackers 
& Painters.
It tries to explain why Americans make some things well 
and others badly.)A few years ago an Italian friend of mine travelled by train from
Boston to Providence.  She had only been in America for a
couple weeks and hadn't seen much of the country yet.  She arrived
looking astonished.  "It's so ugly!"People from other rich countries can scarcely imagine
the squalor of the man-made bits of America.  In travel books
they show you mostly natural environments: the Grand Canyon,
whitewater rafting, horses in a field.  If you see
pictures with man-made things in them, it will be either a
view of the New York skyline shot from a discreet distance,
or a carefully cropped image of a seacoast town in Maine.How can it be, visitors must wonder.  How can the richest country
in the world look like this?Oddly enough, it may not be a coincidence.  Americans are good
at some things and bad at others.  We're good at making
movies and software, and bad at making cars and cities.
And I think we may be good at what we're good at for the same
reason we're bad at what we're bad at.  We're impatient.
In America, if you want to do something, you don't worry that
it might come out badly, or upset delicate social balances, or
that people might think you're getting above yourself.  If you
want to do something, as Nike says, just do it.This works well in some fields and badly in others.  I suspect
it works in movies and software because they're both messy  
processes.  "Systematic"
is the last word I'd use to describe the way 
good programmers write software.
Code is not something they assemble painstakingly after
careful planning, like the pyramids.  It's something they
plunge into, working fast and constantly changing their minds,
like a charcoal sketch.In software, paradoxical
as it sounds, good craftsmanship means working fast.
If you work slowly and meticulously,
you merely end up with a very fine implementation of your initial,
mistaken idea.
Working slowly and meticulously is
premature optimization.  Better to get a
prototype done fast, and see what new ideas
it gives you.It sounds like making movies works a lot like making software.
Every movie is a Frankenstein, full of imperfections
and usually quite different from what was originally envisioned.  
But interesting, and finished fairly quickly.  I think we get away with this in movies and software
because they're both malleable mediums.  Boldness pays.

And if at the last minute two parts don't quite   
fit, you can figure out some hack that will at least conceal
the problem.Not so with cars, or cities.  They are all too physical.
If the car business worked like software or movies, you'd
surpass your competitors by making a car that weighed only
fifty pounds, or folded up to the size of a motorcycle when   
you wanted to park it.  But with physical products there are
more constraints.  You don't win by dramatic innovations
so much as by good taste and attention to detail.The trouble is, the very word "taste"
sounds slightly ridiculous to American ears.
It seems pretentious, or frivolous, or even effeminate.
Blue staters think it's "subjective," and red staters 
think it's for sissies.  So anyone in America
who really cares about design will be sailing upwind.Twenty years ago we used to hear that the problem with
the US car industry was the workers.
We don't hear that any more now that Japanese companies
are building cars in the US.   The problem with
American cars is bad design.  You can see that just by
looking at them.All that extra sheet metal on the AMC Matador wasn't
added by the workers.  The problem
with this car, as with American cars today, is that it was
designed by marketing people instead of designers.Why do the Japanese make better cars than us?  Some say it's
because their culture encourages cooperation.  That may come
into it.   But in this case it seems more to the point that
their culture prizes design and craftsmanship.For centuries the Japanese have made finer things than we
have in the West.  When you look at swords they
made in 1200, you just can't believe the date on the label
is right.
Presumably their cars fit together more   
precisely than ours for the same reason their joinery always has.
They're obsessed with making things well.Not us.
When we make something in America, our aim is just to get the   
job done.  Once we reach that point, we take one of two routes.
We can stop there, and have something crude but
serviceable, like a Vise-grip.  Or we can improve it,
which usually means encrusting it with gratuitous ornament.
When we want to make a car "better,"
we stick tail fins on it, or make it 
longer, or make the  
windows smaller, depending on the current fashion.Ditto for houses.  In America you can have either a flimsy box banged
together out of two by fours and drywall, or a McMansion-- a
flimsy box banged together out of two by fours and drywall,
but larger, more dramatic-looking, and full of expensive fittings.
Rich people don't get better design or craftsmanship;
they just get a larger, more conspicuous version of the
standard house.We don't especially prize design or craftsmanship here.  What
we like is speed, and we're willing to do something in an ugly
way to get it done fast.  In some
fields, like software or movies, this is a net win.  
But it's not just that software and movies are malleable mediums.
In those businesses, the designers (though they're
not generally called that) have more power.   
Software companies, at least successful ones, tend to be run
by programmers.  And in the film industry, though producers
may second-guess directors, the director controls most of
what appears on the screen.
And so American software and movies, and Japanese cars, all
have this in common: the people in charge care about
design-- the former because the designers are in charge, and the latter
because the whole culture cares about design.I think most Japanese executives would be horrified at
the idea of making a bad car.  Whereas American executives,
in their hearts, still believe the most important thing about
a car is the image it projects.
Make a good car?  What's "good?"  It's so subjective.
If you want to know how to design a car, ask a focus group.Instead of relying on their own internal design compass
(like Henry Ford did),
American car companies try to make what marketing people
think consumers want.  But it isn't working.  American cars continue
to lose market share.  And the reason is that the customer
doesn't want what he thinks he wants.Letting focus groups design your cars for you  
only wins in the short term.  In the long term, it pays
to bet on good design.  The focus group may say they want the
meretricious feature du jour, but what they want even more is
to imitate sophisticated buyers, and they, though a
small minority, really do care about good design.
Eventually the
pimps and drug dealers notice that the doctors and lawyers
have switched from Cadillac to Lexus, and do the same.Apple is an interesting counterexample to the general
American trend.  If you want to buy a nice CD player, you'll
probably buy a Japanese one.  But if you want to buy an
MP3 player, you'll probably buy an iPod.  What happened?
Why doesn't Sony dominate MP3 players?  Because Apple is
in the consumer electronics business now, and unlike
other American companies, they're obsessed with good design.  
Or more precisely, their CEO is.I just got an iPod, and it's not just nice.  It's     
surprisingly nice.  For it to surprise me, it must be
satisfying expectations I didn't know I had.  No focus
group is going to discover those.  Only a great   
designer can.Cars aren't the worst thing we make in America.
Where the just-do-it model fails most dramatically is in our cities-- or
rather, exurbs.
If real estate developers operated on a large enough scale, if
they built whole towns, market forces would compel
them to build towns that didn't suck.  But they only build a
couple office buildings or suburban streets at a time, and the
result is so depressing that the inhabitants consider it a great
treat to fly to Europe and spend a couple weeks living what
is, for people there, just everyday life. [1]But the just-do-it model does have advantages.  It seems the clear
winner for generating wealth and technical innovations
(which are practically the same thing).  I think speed is the reason.
It's hard to create wealth by making a commodity.  The
real value is in things that are new, and if you want to
be the first to make something, it helps to work fast.
For better or worse, the just-do-it model is fast,
whether you're Dan Bricklin writing the prototype of VisiCalc in
a weekend, or a real estate developer
building a block of shoddy condos in a month.If I had to choose between the just-do-it model and the
careful model, I'd probably choose just-do-it.
But do we have to choose?  Could we have it both ways?
Could Americans have nice
places to live without undermining the impatient, individualistic spirit
that makes us good at software?  Could other countries
introduce more individualism into their technology companies
and research labs without having it metastasize as strip malls?
I'm optimistic.  It's harder to
say about other countries, but in the US, at least, I think 
we can have both.Apple is an encouraging example.  They've managed to preserve
enough of the impatient, hackerly spirit you need to write
software.  And yet when
you pick up a new Apple laptop, well, it doesn't
seem American.  It's too perfect.  It seems as if it
must have been made by a Swedish or a Japanese company.In many technologies, version 2 has higher resolution.  Why
not in design generally?  I think we'll gradually see
national characters superseded
by occupational characters: hackers in Japan will be allowed
to behave with a willfulness 
that would now seem unJapanese,
and products in America will be designed with an
insistence on taste that would now seem unAmerican.
Perhaps the most successful countries, in the future, will be
those most willing to ignore what are now considered
national characters, and do each kind of work in the way
that works best.  Race you.Notes[1] Japanese cities are ugly too, but for different reasons.
Japan is prone to earthquakes, so buildings are traditionally
seen as temporary; there is no grand tradition of  city planning
like the one Europeans inherited from Rome.  The other cause is
the notoriously corrupt relationship between the government
and construction companies.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Barry Eisler, Sarah Harlin,
Shiro Kawai, Jessica Livingston, Jackie McDonough, Robert Morris, 
and Eric Raymond
for reading drafts of this.American GothicThe John Rain Books

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

November 2004, corrected June 2006Occam's razor says we should prefer the simpler of two explanations.
I begin by reminding readers of this principle because I'm about
to propose a theory that will offend both liberals and conservatives.
But Occam's razor means, in effect, that if you want to disagree
with it, you have a hell of a coincidence to explain.Theory: In US presidential elections, the more 
charismatic candidate wins.People who write about politics, whether on the left or the right,
have a consistent bias: they take politics seriously.  When one
candidate beats another they look for political explanations.  The
country is shifting to the left, or the right.  And that sort of
shift can certainly be the result of a presidential election, which
makes it easy to believe it was the cause.But when I think about why I voted for Clinton over the first George
Bush, it wasn't because I was shifting to the left.  Clinton just
seemed more dynamic.  He seemed to want the job more.  Bush seemed
old and tired.  I suspect it was the same for a lot of voters.Clinton didn't represent any national shift leftward.
[1]
He was
just more charismatic than George Bush or (God help us) Bob Dole.
In 2000 we practically got a controlled experiment to prove it:
Gore had Clinton's policies, but not his charisma, and he suffered
proportionally. 
[2]
Same story in 2004. Kerry was smarter and more
articulate than Bush, but rather a stiff.  And Kerry lost.As I looked further back, I kept finding the same pattern.  
Pundits said Carter beat Ford
because the country distrusted the Republicans after Watergate.
And yet it also happened that Carter was famous for his big grin
and folksy ways, and Ford for being a boring klutz.  Four years
later, pundits said the country had lurched to the right.  But
Reagan, a former actor, also happened to be even more charismatic
than Carter (whose grin was somewhat less cheery after four stressful
years in office).  In 1984 the charisma gap between Reagan and
Mondale was like that between Clinton and Dole, with similar results.
The first George Bush managed to win in 1988, though he would later
be vanquished by one of the most charismatic presidents ever, because
in 1988 he was up against the notoriously uncharismatic
Michael Dukakis.These are the elections I remember personally, but apparently the
same pattern played out in 1964 and 1972.  The most recent
counterexample appears to be 1968, when Nixon beat the more charismatic Hubert
Humphrey.  But when you examine that election, it tends to support
the charisma theory more than contradict it.  As Joe McGinnis
recounts in his famous book The Selling of the President 1968,
Nixon knew he had less charisma than Humphrey, and thus simply
refused to debate him on TV.  He knew he couldn't afford to let the
two of them be seen side by side.Now a candidate probably couldn't get away with refusing to debate.
But in 1968 the custom of televised debates was still evolving.  In
effect, Nixon won in 1968 because voters were never allowed to see
the real Nixon.  All they saw were carefully scripted campaign
spots.Oddly enough, the most recent true counterexample is probably 1960.
Though this election is usually given as an example of the power
of TV, Kennedy apparently would not have won without fraud by party
machines in Illinois and Texas.  But TV was still young in 1960;
only 87% of households had it.
[3]
Undoubtedly TV helped Kennedy,
so historians are correct in regarding this election as a
watershed.  TV required a new kind of candidate. There would be no
more Calvin Coolidges.The charisma theory may also explain why Democrats tend to lose
presidential elections.  The core of the Democrats' ideology seems
to be a belief in government.  Perhaps this tends to attract people
who are earnest, but dull.  Dukakis, Gore, and Kerry were so similar
in that respect that they might have been brothers.  Good thing for
the Democrats that their screen lets through an occasional Clinton,
even if some scandal results.  
[4]One would like to believe elections are won and lost on issues, if
only fake ones like Willie Horton.  And yet, if they are, we have
a remarkable coincidence to explain.  In every presidential election
since TV became widespread, the apparently more charismatic candidate
has won.  Surprising, isn't it, that voters' opinions on the issues
have lined up with charisma for 11 elections in a row?The political commentators who come up with shifts to the left or
right in their morning-after analyses are like the financial reporters
stuck writing stories day after day about the random fluctuations
of the stock market.  Day ends, market closes up or down, reporter
looks for good or bad news respectively, and writes that the market
was up on news of Intel's earnings, or down on fears of instability
in the Middle East.  Suppose we could somehow feed these reporters
false information about market closes, but give them all the other
news intact.  Does anyone believe they would notice the anomaly,
and not simply write that stocks were up (or down) on whatever good
(or bad) news there was that day?  That they would say, hey, wait
a minute, how can stocks be up with all this unrest in the Middle
East?I'm not saying that issues don't matter to voters.  Of course they
do.  But the major parties know so well which issues matter how
much to how many voters, and adjust their message so precisely in
response, that they tend to split the difference on the issues,
leaving the election to be decided by the one factor they can't
control: charisma.If the Democrats had been running a candidate as charismatic as
Clinton in the 2004 election, he'd have won.  And we'd be reading
that the election was a referendum on the war in Iraq, instead of
that the Democrats are out of touch with evangelical Christians in
middle America.During the 1992 election, the Clinton campaign staff had a big sign
in their office saying "It's the economy, stupid." Perhaps it was
even simpler than they thought.PostscriptOpinions seem to be divided about the charisma theory.  Some say
it's impossible, others say it's obvious.  This seems a good sign.
Perhaps it's in the sweet spot midway between.As for it being impossible, I reply: here's the data; here's the
theory; theory explains data 100%.   To a scientist, at least, that
means it deserves attention, however implausible it seems.You can't believe voters are so superficial that they just choose
the most charismatic guy?  My theory doesn't require that.  I'm not
proposing that charisma is the only factor, just that it's the only
one left after the efforts of the two parties cancel one
another out.As for the theory being obvious, as far as I know, no one has
proposed it before.  Election forecasters are proud when they can
achieve the same results with much more complicated models.Finally, to the people who say that the theory is probably true,
but rather depressing: it's not so bad as it seems.  The phenomenon
is like a pricing anomaly; once people realize it's there, it will
disappear.  Once both parties realize it's a waste of time to
nominate uncharismatic candidates, they'll tend to nominate only
the most charismatic ones.  And if the candidates are equally
charismatic, charisma will cancel out, and elections will be decided
on issues, as political commentators like to think they are now.Notes[1]
As Clinton himself discovered to his surprise when, in one of
his first acts as president, he tried to shift the military leftward.
After a bruising fight he escaped with a face-saving compromise.[2]
True, Gore won the popular vote. But politicians know the electoral
vote decides the election, so that's what they campaign for. If Bush
had been campaigning for the popular vote he would presumably have
got more of it. (Thanks to judgmentalist for this point.)[3]
Source: Nielsen Media Research.  Of the remaining 13%, 11 didn't
have TV because they couldn't afford it.  I'd argue that the missing
11% were probably also the 11% most susceptible to charisma.[4]
One implication of this theory is that parties shouldn't be too
quick to reject candidates with skeletons in their closets.
Charismatic candidates will tend to have more skeletons than squeaky
clean dullards, but in practice that doesn't seem to lose elections.
The current Bush, for example, probably did more drugs in his
twenties than any preceding president, and yet managed to get elected
with a base of evangelical Christians.  All you have to do is say
you've reformed, and stonewall about the details.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Maria Daniels, Jessica Livingston,
Jackie McDonough, and Robert Morris for reading drafts of this, and
to Eric Raymond for pointing out that I was wrong about 1968.

Comment on this essay.What Charisma IsPolitics and the Art of ActingJapanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

November 2004
A lot of people are writing now about 
why Kerry lost.  Here I want to
examine a more specific question: why were the exit polls so 
wrong?In Ohio, which Kerry ultimately
lost 49-51, exit polls gave him a 52-48 victory.  And this wasn't just
random error.  In every swing state they overestimated the Kerry vote.
In Florida, which Bush ultimately won 52-47, exit polls predicted
a dead heat.(These are not early numbers. They're from about midnight eastern time, 
long after polls closed in Ohio and Florida.  And yet by the
next afternoon the exit poll numbers online corresponded to the returns.  
The only way I can imagine this happening is if those in
charge of the exit polls cooked the books after seeing the actual
returns.  But that's another issue.)What happened?  The source of the problem may be a variant of
the Bradley Effect.  
This term
was invented after Tom Bradley, the black mayor of Los Angeles, 
lost an election for governor of California despite a comfortable
lead in the polls.  Apparently voters were afraid to say  
they planned to vote against him, lest their motives be
(perhaps correctly) suspected.It seems likely that something similar happened in exit polls this year.
In theory, exit polls ought to be very accurate.  
You're not asking people what they would do.  You're
asking what they just did.How can you get errors asking that?  Because some people don't
respond.  To get a truly random sample, pollsters ask, say, every
20th person leaving the polling place who they voted for.  But not
everyone wants to answer.  And the pollsters can't simply ignore
those who won't, or their sample isn't random anymore.  So what
they do, apparently, is note down the age and race and sex of the
person, and guess from that who they voted for.This works so long as there is no correlation between who people
vote for and whether they're willing to talk about it.  But this
year there may have been.  It may be that a significant number of 
those who voted for
Bush didn't want to say so.Why not?  Because people in the US are more conservative than they're
willing to admit.  The values of the elite in this country, at least
at the moment, are NPR values.  The average person, as I think both
Republicans and Democrats would agree, is more socially conservative.  
But while some openly flaunt the fact that they don't share the
opinions of the elite, others feel a little nervous about it, as 
if they had bad table manners.For example, according to current NPR values, you 
can't say anything that might be 
perceived as disparaging towards homosexuals.  To do  
so is "homophobic."  And yet a large number of Americans are deeply
religious, and the Bible is quite explicit on the subject of
homosexuality.  What are they to do?  I think what many do is keep 
their opinions, but keep them to themselves.They know what they believe, but they also know what they're supposed
to believe.
And so when a stranger (for example, a pollster) asks
them their opinion about something like gay marriage, they will not
always say what they really think.When the values of the elite are liberal, polls will tend to
underestimate the conservativeness of ordinary voters.  This seems
to me the leading theory to explain why the exit polls were so 
far off this year.  NPR values   
said one ought to vote for Kerry.  So all the people who voted for
Kerry felt virtuous for doing so, and were eager to tell pollsters
they had. No one who voted for Kerry did it as an act of quiet
defiance.Support for a Woman PresidentJapanese Translation
If you liked this, you may also like
Hackers & Painters.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

October 2004
As E. B. White said, "good writing is rewriting."  I didn't
realize this when I was in school.  In writing, as in math and 
science, they only show you the finished product.
You don't see all the false starts.  This gives students a
misleading view of how things get made.Part of the reason it happens is that writers don't want   
people to see their mistakes.  But I'm willing to let people
see an early draft if it will show how much you have
to rewrite to beat an essay into shape.Below is the oldest version I can find of
The Age of the Essay   
(probably the second or third day), with
text that ultimately survived in 
red and text that later
got deleted in gray.
There seem to be several categories of cuts: things I got wrong,
things that seem like bragging, flames,
digressions, stretches of awkward prose, and unnecessary words.I discarded more from the beginning.  That's
not surprising; it takes a while to hit your stride.  There
are more digressions at the start, because I'm not sure where
I'm heading.The amount of cutting is about average.  I probably write
three to four words for every one that appears in the final
version of an essay.(Before anyone gets mad at me for opinions expressed here, remember
that anything you see here that's not in the final version is obviously
something I chose not to publish, often because I disagree
with it.)
Recently a friend said that what he liked about
my essays was that they weren't written the way
we'd been taught to write essays in school.  You
remember: topic sentence, introductory paragraph,
supporting paragraphs, conclusion.  It hadn't
occurred to me till then that those horrible things
we had to write in school were even connected to
what I was doing now.  But sure enough, I thought,
they did call them "essays," didn't they?Well, they're not.  Those things you have to write
in school are not only not essays, they're one of the
most pointless of all the pointless hoops you have
to jump through in school.  And I worry that they
not only teach students the wrong things about writing,
but put them off writing entirely.So I'm going to give the other side of the story: what
an essay really is, and how you write one.  Or at least,
how I write one.  Students be forewarned: if you actually write
the kind of essay I describe, you'll probably get bad
grades.  But knowing how it's really done should
at least help you to understand the feeling of futility
you have when you're writing the things they tell you to.
The most obvious difference between real essays and
the things one has to write in school is that real
essays are not exclusively about English literature.
It's a fine thing for schools to

teach students how to
write.  But for some bizarre reason (actually, a very specific bizarre
reason that I'll explain in a moment),

the teaching of
writing has gotten mixed together with the study
of literature.  And so all over the country, students are
writing not about how a baseball team with a small budget 
might compete with the Yankees, or the role of color in
fashion, or what constitutes a good dessert, but about
symbolism in Dickens.With obvious 
results.  Only a few people really

care about
symbolism in Dickens.  The teacher doesn't.
The students don't.  Most of the people who've had to write PhD
dissertations about Dickens don't.  And certainly

Dickens himself would be more interested in an essay
about color or baseball.How did things get this way?  To answer that we have to go back
almost a thousand years.  Between about 500 and 1000, life was
not very good in Europe.  The term "dark ages" is presently
out of fashion as too judgemental (the period wasn't dark; 
it was just different), but if this label didn't already
exist, it would seem an inspired metaphor.  What little
original thought there was took place in lulls between
constant wars and had something of the character of
the thoughts of parents with a new baby.
The most amusing thing written during this
period, Liudprand of Cremona's Embassy to Constantinople, is,
I suspect, mostly inadvertently so.Around 1000 Europe began to catch its breath.
And once they
had the luxury of curiosity, one of the first things they discovered
was what we call "the classics."
Imagine if we were visited  
by aliens.  If they could even get here they'd presumably know a
few things we don't.  Immediately Alien Studies would become
the most dynamic field of scholarship: instead of painstakingly
discovering things for ourselves, we could simply suck up
everything they'd discovered.  So it was in Europe in 1200.
When classical texts began to circulate in Europe, they contained
not just new answers, but new questions.  (If anyone proved
a theorem in christian Europe before 1200, for example, there
is no record of it.)For a couple centuries, some of the most important work
being done was intellectual archaeology.  Those were also
the centuries during which schools were first established.
And since reading ancient texts was the essence of what
scholars did then, it became the basis of the curriculum.By 1700, someone who wanted to learn about
physics didn't need to start by mastering Greek in order to read Aristotle.  But schools
change slower than scholarship: the study of
ancient texts
had such prestige that it remained the backbone of 
education
until the late 19th century.  By then it was merely a tradition.
It did serve some purposes: reading a foreign language was difficult,
and thus taught discipline, or at least, kept students busy;
it introduced students to
cultures quite different from their own; and its very uselessness
made it function (like white gloves) as a social bulwark.
But it certainly wasn't
true, and hadn't been true for centuries, that students were
serving apprenticeships in the hottest area of scholarship.Classical scholarship had also changed.  In the early era, philology
actually mattered.  The texts that filtered into Europe were
all corrupted to some degree by the errors of translators and
copyists.  Scholars had to figure out what Aristotle said
before they could figure out what he meant.  But by the modern
era such questions were answered as well as they were ever
going to be.  And so the study of ancient texts became less
about ancientness and more about texts.The time was then ripe for the question: if the study of
ancient texts is a valid field for scholarship, why not modern
texts?  The answer, of course, is that the raison d'etre
of classical scholarship was a kind of intellectual archaelogy that
does not need to be done in the case of contemporary authors.
But for obvious reasons no one wanted to give that answer.
The archaeological work being mostly done, it implied that
the people studying the classics were, if not wasting their
time, at least working on problems of minor importance.And so began the study of modern literature. There was some
initial resistance, but it didn't last long.
The limiting
reagent in the growth of university departments is what
parents will let undergraduates study.  If parents will let
their children major in x, the rest follows straightforwardly.
There will be jobs teaching x, and professors to fill them.
The professors will establish scholarly journals and publish
one another's papers.  Universities with x departments will
subscribe to the journals.  Graduate students who want jobs
as professors of x will write dissertations about it.  It may
take a good long while for the more prestigious universities
to cave in and establish departments in cheesier xes,  but
at the other end of the scale there are so many universities
competing to attract students that the mere establishment of
a discipline requires little more than the desire to do it.High schools imitate universities.
And so once university
English departments were established in the late nineteenth century,
the 'riting component of the 3 Rs 
was morphed into English.
With the bizarre consequence that high school students now
had to write about English literature-- to write, without
even realizing it, imitations of whatever
English professors had been publishing in their journals a
few decades before.   It's no wonder if this seems to the
student a pointless exercise, because we're now three steps
removed from real work: the students are imitating English
professors, who are imitating classical scholars, who are
merely the inheritors of a tradition growing out of what
was, 700 years ago, fascinating and urgently needed work.Perhaps high schools should drop English and just teach writing.
The valuable part of English classes is learning to write, and
that could be taught better by itself.  Students learn better
when they're interested in what they're doing, and it's hard
to imagine a topic less interesting than symbolism in Dickens.
Most of the people who write about that sort of thing professionally
are not really interested in it.  (Though indeed, it's been a
while since they were writing about symbolism; now they're
writing about gender.)I have no illusions about how eagerly this suggestion will  
be adopted.  Public schools probably couldn't stop teaching
English even if they wanted to; they're probably required to by
law.  But here's a related suggestion that goes with the grain
instead of against it: that universities establish a
writing major.  Many of the students who now major in English
would major in writing if they could, and most would
be better off.It will be argued that it is a good thing for students to be
exposed to their literary heritage.  Certainly.  But is that
more important than that they learn to write well?  And are
English classes even the place to do it?  After all,
the average public high school student gets zero exposure to  
his artistic heritage.  No disaster results.
The people who are interested in art learn about it for
themselves, and those who aren't don't.  I find that American
adults are no better or worse informed about literature than
art, despite the fact that they spent years studying literature
in high school and no time at all studying art.  Which presumably
means that what they're taught in school is rounding error 
compared to what they pick up on their own.Indeed, English classes may even be harmful.  In my case they
were effectively aversion therapy.  Want to make someone dislike
a book?  Force him to read it and write an essay about it.
And make the topic so intellectually bogus that you
could not, if asked, explain why one ought to write about it.
I love to read more than anything, but by the end of high school
I never read the books we were assigned.  I was so disgusted with
what we were doing that it became a point of honor
with me to write nonsense at least as good at the other students'
without having more than glanced over the book to learn the names
of the characters and a few random events in it.I hoped this might be fixed in college, but I found the same
problem there.  It was not the teachers.  It was English.   
We were supposed to read novels and write essays about them.
About what, and why?  That no one seemed to be able to explain.
Eventually by trial and error I found that what the teacher  
wanted us to do was pretend that the story had really taken
place, and to analyze based on what the characters said and did (the
subtler clues, the better) what their motives must have been.
One got extra credit for motives having to do with class,
as I suspect one must now for those involving gender and  
sexuality.  I learned how to churn out such stuff well enough
to get an A, but I never took another English class.And the books we did these disgusting things to, like those
we mishandled in high school, I find still have black marks
against them in my mind.  The one saving grace was that   
English courses tend to favor pompous, dull writers like
Henry James, who deserve black marks against their names anyway.
One of the principles the IRS uses in deciding whether to
allow deductions is that, if something is fun, it isn't work.
Fields that are intellectually unsure of themselves rely on
a similar principle.  Reading P.G. Wodehouse or Evelyn Waugh or
Raymond Chandler is too obviously pleasing to seem like
serious work, as reading Shakespeare would have been before 
English evolved enough to make it an effort to understand him. [sh]
And so good writers (just you wait and see who's still in
print in 300 years) are less likely to have readers turned   
against them by clumsy, self-appointed tour guides.The other big difference between a real essay and the 
things
they make you write in school is that a real essay doesn't 
take a position and then defend it.  That principle,
like the idea that we ought to be writing about literature,   
turns out to be another intellectual hangover of long
forgotten origins.  It's often mistakenly believed that
medieval universities were mostly seminaries.  In fact they
were more law schools.  And at least in our tradition
lawyers are advocates: they are
trained to be able to
take
either side of an argument and make as good a case for it  
as they can. Whether or not this is a good idea (in the case of prosecutors,
it probably isn't), it tended to pervade
the atmosphere of
early universities.  After the lecture the most common form
of discussion was the disputation.  This idea
is at least
nominally preserved in our present-day thesis defense-- indeed,
in the very word thesis.  Most people treat the words 
thesis
and dissertation as interchangeable, but originally, at least,
a thesis was a position one took and the dissertation was
the argument by which one defended it.I'm not complaining that we blur these two words together.
As far as I'm concerned, the sooner we lose the original
sense of the word thesis, the better.  For many, perhaps most,  
graduate students, it is stuffing a square peg into a round
hole to try to recast one's work as a single thesis.  And
as for the disputation, that seems clearly a net lose.
Arguing two sides of a case may be a necessary evil in a
legal dispute, but it's not the best way to get at the truth,
as I think lawyers would be the first to admit.
And yet this principle is built into the very structure of  
the essays
they teach you to write in high school.  The topic
sentence is your thesis, chosen in advance, the supporting 
paragraphs the blows you strike in the conflict, and the
conclusion--- uh, what it the conclusion?  I was never sure  
about that in high school.  If your thesis was well expressed,
what need was there to restate it?  In theory it seemed that
the conclusion of a really good essay ought not to need to   
say any more than QED.
But when you understand the origins
of this sort of "essay", you can see where the
conclusion comes from.  It's the concluding remarks to the 
jury.
What other alternative is there?  To answer that
we have to
reach back into history again, though this time not so far.
To Michel de Montaigne, inventor of the essay.
He was
doing something quite different from what a
lawyer does,
and
the difference is embodied in the name.  Essayer is the French
verb meaning "to try" (the cousin of our word assay),

and an "essai" is an effort.
An essay is something you
write in order
to figure something out.Figure out what?  You don't know yet.  And so you can't begin with a
thesis, because you don't have one, and may never have 
one.  An essay doesn't begin with a statement, but with a  
question.  In a real essay, you don't take a position and
defend it.  You see a door that's ajar, and you open it and
walk in to see what's inside.If all you want to do is figure things out, why do you need
to write anything, though?  Why not just sit and think?  Well,
there precisely is Montaigne's great discovery.  Expressing
ideas helps to form them.  Indeed, helps is far too weak a
word.  90%
of what ends up in my essays was stuff
I only
thought of when I sat down to write them.  That's why I
write them.So there's another difference between essays and
the things
you have to write in school.   In school

you are, in theory,
explaining yourself to someone else.  In the best case---if
you're really organized---you're just writing it down.
In a real essay you're writing for yourself.  You're
thinking out loud.But not quite.  Just as inviting people over forces you to
clean up your apartment, writing something that you know

other people will read forces you to think well.  So it
does matter to have an audience.  The things I've written
just for myself are no good.  Indeed, they're bad in
a particular way:
they tend to peter out.  When I run into
difficulties, I notice that I
tend to conclude with a few vague
questions and then drift off to get a cup of tea.This seems a common problem.
It's practically the standard
ending in blog entries--- with the addition of a "heh" or an 
emoticon, prompted by the all too accurate sense that
something is missing.And indeed, a lot of
published essays peter out in this
same way.
Particularly the sort written by the staff writers of newsmagazines.  Outside writers tend to supply
editorials of the defend-a-position variety, which
make a beeline toward a rousing (and
foreordained) conclusion.   But the staff writers feel
obliged to write something more
balanced, which in
practice ends up meaning blurry.
Since they're
writing for a popular magazine, they start with the
most radioactively controversial questions, from which
(because they're writing for a popular magazine)
they then proceed to recoil from
in terror.
Gay marriage, for or
against?  This group says one thing.  That group says
another.  One thing is certain: the question is a
complex one.  (But don't get mad at us.  We didn't
draw any conclusions.)Questions aren't enough.  An essay has to come up with answers.
They don't always, of course.  Sometimes you start with a  
promising question and get nowhere.  But those you don't
publish.  Those are like experiments that get inconclusive
results.   Something you publish ought to tell the reader  
something he didn't already know.
But what you tell him doesn't matter, so long as   
it's interesting.  I'm sometimes accused of meandering.
In defend-a-position writing that would be a flaw.
There you're not concerned with truth.  You already
know where you're going, and you want to go straight there,
blustering through obstacles, and hand-waving
your way across swampy ground.  But that's not what
you're trying to do in an essay.  An essay is supposed to
be a search for truth.  It would be suspicious if it didn't
meander.The Meander is a river in Asia Minor (aka
Turkey).
As you might expect, it winds all over the place.
But does it
do this out of frivolity?   Quite the opposite.
Like all rivers, it's rigorously following the laws of physics.
The path it has discovered,
winding as it is, represents
the most economical route to the sea.The river's algorithm is simple.  At each step, flow down.
For the essayist this translates to: flow interesting.
Of all the places to go next, choose
whichever seems
most interesting.I'm pushing this metaphor a bit.  An essayist
can't have
quite as little foresight as a river.  In fact what you do
(or what I do) is somewhere between a river and a roman
road-builder.  I have a general idea of the direction
I want to go in, and
I choose the next topic with that in mind.  This essay is
about writing, so I do occasionally yank it back in that
direction, but it is not all the sort of essay I
thought I was going to write about writing.Note too that hill-climbing (which is what this algorithm is
called) can get you in trouble.
Sometimes, just
like a river,
you
run up against a blank wall.  What
I do then is just 
what the river does: backtrack.
At one point in this essay
I found that after following a certain thread I ran out
of ideas.  I had to go back n
paragraphs and start over
in another direction.  For illustrative purposes I've left
the abandoned branch as a footnote.
Err on the side of the river.  An essay is not a reference
work.  It's not something you read looking for a specific
answer, and feel cheated if you don't find it.  I'd much
rather read an essay that went off in an unexpected but
interesting direction than one that plodded dutifully along
a prescribed course.So what's interesting?  For me, interesting means surprise.
Design, as Matz
has said, should follow the principle of
least surprise.
A button that looks like it will make a
machine stop should make it stop, not speed up.  Essays
should do the opposite.  Essays should aim for maximum
surprise.I was afraid of flying for a long time and could only travel
vicariously.  When friends came back from faraway places,
it wasn't just out of politeness that I asked them about
their trip.
I really wanted to know.  And I found that
the best way to get information out of them was to ask
what surprised them.  How was the place different from what
they expected?  This is an extremely useful question.
You can ask it of even
the most unobservant people, and it will
extract information they didn't even know they were
recording. Indeed, you can ask it in real time.  Now when I go somewhere
new, I make a note of what surprises me about it.  Sometimes I
even make a conscious effort to visualize the place beforehand,
so I'll have a detailed image to diff with reality.
Surprises are facts
you didn't already 
know.
But they're
more than that.  They're facts
that contradict things you
thought you knew.  And so they're the most valuable sort of
fact you can get.  They're like a food that's not merely
healthy, but counteracts the unhealthy effects of things
you've already eaten.
How do you find surprises?  Well, therein lies half
the work of essay writing.  (The other half is expressing
yourself well.)   You can at least
use yourself as a
proxy for the reader.  You should only write about things
you've thought about a lot.  And anything you come across
that surprises you, who've thought about the topic a lot,
will probably surprise most readers.For example, in a recent essay I pointed out that because
you can only judge computer programmers by working with
them, no one knows in programming who the heroes should
be.
I
certainly
didn't realize this when I started writing
the 
essay, and even now I find it kind of weird.  That's
what you're looking for.So if you want to write essays, you need two ingredients:
you need
a few topics that you think about a lot, and you
need some ability to ferret out the unexpected.What should you think about?  My guess is that it
doesn't matter.  Almost everything is
interesting if you get deeply
enough into it.  The one possible exception
are
things
like working in fast food, which
have deliberately had all
the variation sucked out of them.
In retrospect, was there
anything interesting about working in Baskin-Robbins?
Well, it was interesting to notice
how important color was
to the customers.  Kids a certain age would point into
the case and say that they wanted yellow.  Did they want
French Vanilla or Lemon?  They would just look at you
blankly.  They wanted yellow.  And then there was the
mystery of why the perennial favorite Pralines n' Cream
was so appealing. I'm inclined now to
think it was the salt.
And the mystery of why Passion Fruit tasted so disgusting.
People would order it because of the name, and were always
disappointed.  It should have been called In-sink-erator
Fruit.
And there was
the difference in the way fathers and
mothers bought ice cream for their kids.
Fathers tended to
adopt the attitude of
benevolent kings bestowing largesse,
and mothers that of
harried bureaucrats,
giving in to
pressure against their better judgement.
So, yes, there does seem to be material, even in
fast food.What about the other half, ferreting out the unexpected?
That may require some natural ability.  I've noticed for
a long time that I'm pathologically observant.  ....[That was as far as I'd gotten at the time.]Notes[sh] In Shakespeare's own time, serious writing meant theological
discourses, not the bawdy plays acted over on the other  
side of the river among the bear gardens and whorehouses.The other extreme, the work that seems formidable from the moment
it's created (indeed, is deliberately intended to be)
is represented by Milton.  Like the Aeneid, Paradise Lost is a
rock imitating a butterfly that happened to get fossilized.
Even Samuel Johnson seems to have balked at this, on the one  
hand paying Milton the compliment of an extensive biography,
and on the other writing of Paradise Lost that "none who read it
ever wished it longer."

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

September 2004(This essay is derived from an invited talk at ICFP 2004.)I had a front row seat for the Internet Bubble,
because I worked at Yahoo during 1998 and 1999.  One day,
when the stock was trading around $200, I sat down and calculated
what I thought the price should be. The 
answer I got was $12.  I went to
the next cubicle and told my friend Trevor.  "Twelve!" he said.
He tried to sound indignant, but he didn't quite manage it.  He
knew as well as I did that our valuation was crazy.Yahoo was a special case.  It was not just our price to earnings
ratio that was bogus.  Half our earnings were too.  Not in
the Enron way, of course.  The finance guys seemed
scrupulous about reporting earnings.  What made our
earnings bogus was that Yahoo was, in effect, the center of
a Ponzi scheme.  Investors looked at Yahoo's earnings
and said to themselves, here is proof that Internet companies can make
money.  So they invested in new
startups that promised to be the next Yahoo.  And as soon as these startups
got the money, what did they do with it?
Buy millions of dollars worth of advertising on Yahoo to promote
their brand.  Result: a capital investment in a startup this
quarter shows up as Yahoo earnings next quarter—stimulating
another round of investments in startups.As in a Ponzi scheme, what seemed to be the returns of this system
were simply the latest round of investments in it.
What made it not a Ponzi scheme was that it was unintentional.  
At least, I think it was.  The venture capital business is pretty incestuous,
and there were presumably people in a position, if not to create
this situation, to realize what was happening and to milk it.A year later the game was up.  Starting in January 2000, Yahoo's
stock price began to crash, ultimately losing 95% of its
value.Notice, though, that even with all the fat trimmed off its market
cap, Yahoo was still worth a lot.  Even at the morning-after
valuations of March and April 2001, the people at Yahoo had managed
to create a company worth about $8 billion in just six years.The fact is, despite all the nonsense we heard
during the Bubble about the "new economy," there was a
core of truth.  You need
that to get a really big bubble: you need to have something
solid at the center, so that even smart people are sucked in.
(Isaac Newton and Jonathan Swift both lost money
in the South Sea Bubble of 1720.)Now the pendulum has swung the other way.  Now anything that
became fashionable during the Bubble is ipso facto unfashionable.
But that's a mistake—an even bigger mistake than believing
what everyone was saying in 1999.  Over the long term,
what the Bubble got right will be more important than what
it got wrong.1. Retail VCAfter the excesses of the Bubble, it's now
considered dubious to take companies public before they have earnings.
But there is nothing intrinsically wrong with
that idea.  Taking a company public at an early stage is simply
retail VC: instead of going to venture capital firms for the last round of
funding, you go to the public markets.By the end of the Bubble, companies going public with no
earnings were being derided as "concept stocks," as if it
were inherently stupid to invest in them.
But investing in concepts isn't stupid; it's what VCs do,
and the best of them are far from stupid.The stock of a company that doesn't yet have earnings is  
worth something.
It may take a while for the market to learn
how to value such companies, just as it had to learn to
value common stocks in the early 20th century.   But markets
are good at solving that kind of problem.  I wouldn't be
surprised if the market ultimately did a better
job than VCs do now.Going public early will not be the right plan
for every company.
And it can of course be
disruptive—by distracting the management, or by making the early
employees suddenly rich.  But just as the market will learn
how to value startups, startups will learn how to minimize
the damage of going public.2. The InternetThe Internet genuinely is a big deal.  That was one reason
even smart people were fooled by the Bubble.  Obviously 
it was going to have a huge effect.  Enough of an effect to
triple the value of Nasdaq companies in two years?  No, as it
turned out.  But it was hard to say for certain at the time. [1]The same thing happened during the Mississippi and South Sea Bubbles.
What drove them was the invention of organized public finance
(the South Sea Company, despite its name, was really a competitor
of the Bank of England).  And that did turn out to be
a big deal, in the long run.Recognizing an important trend turns out to be easier than 
figuring out how to profit from it.  The mistake
investors always seem to make is to take the trend too literally.
Since the Internet was the big new thing, investors supposed
that the more Internettish the company, the better.  Hence
such parodies as Pets.Com.In fact most of the money to be made from big trends is made
indirectly.  It was not the railroads themselves that 
made the most money during the railroad boom, but the companies
on either side, like Carnegie's steelworks, which made the rails,
and Standard Oil, which used railroads to get oil to the East Coast,
where it could be shipped to Europe.I think the Internet will have great effects,
and that what we've seen so far is nothing compared to what's
coming.  But most of the winners will only indirectly be
Internet companies; for every Google there will be ten
JetBlues.3. ChoicesWhy will the Internet have great effects?  The general   
argument is that new forms of communication always do.  They happen
rarely (till industrial times there were just speech, writing, and printing),
but when they do, they always cause a big splash.The specific argument, or one of them, is the Internet gives us  
more choices.  In the "old" economy,
the high cost of presenting information to people meant they
had only a narrow range of options to choose from.  The tiny,
expensive pipeline to consumers was tellingly named "the channel."
Control the channel and you
could feed them what you wanted, on your terms.  And it
was not just big corporations that depended
on this principle.  So, in their way, did
labor unions, the traditional news media,
and the art and literary establishments.
Winning depended not on doing good work, but on gaining control
of some bottleneck.There are signs that this is changing.
Google has over 82 million unique users a month and
annual revenues of about three billion dollars. [2]
And yet have you ever seen
a Google ad?
Something is going on here.Admittedly, Google is an extreme case.  It's very easy for
people to switch to a new search engine.  It costs little
effort and no money to try a new one, and it's easy to
see if the results are better.  And so Google doesn't have
to advertise.  In a business like theirs, being the best is
enough.The exciting thing about the Internet is that it's
shifting everything in that direction.
The hard part, if you want to win by making the best stuff,
is the beginning.  Eventually everyone
will learn by word of mouth that you're the best,
but how do you survive to that point?  And it is in this crucial
stage that the Internet has the most effect.  First, the
Internet lets anyone find you at almost zero cost.
Second, it dramatically speeds up the rate at which
reputation spreads by word of mouth.  Together these mean that in many
fields the rule will be: Build it, and they will come.
Make something great and put it online.
That is a big change from the recipe for winning in the
past century.4. YouthThe aspect of the Internet Bubble that the press seemed most
taken with was the youth of some of the startup founders.
This too is a trend that will last.
There is a huge standard deviation among 26 year olds.  Some
are fit only for entry level jobs, but others are
ready to rule the world if they can find someone to handle
the paperwork for them.A 26 year old may not be very good at managing people or
dealing with the SEC.  Those require experience.
But those are also commodities, which can be handed off to
some lieutenant.  The most important quality in a CEO is his
vision for the company's future.  What will they build next?
And in that department, there are 26 year olds who can
compete with anyone.In 1970 a company president meant someone in his fifties, at
least.   If he had technologists working for him, they were 
treated like a racing stable: prized, but not powerful.  But 
as technology has grown more important, the power of nerds
has grown to reflect it.  Now it's not enough for a CEO to
have someone smart he can ask about technical matters.   Increasingly,
he has to be that person himself.As always, business has clung to old forms.  VCs still seem
to want to install a legitimate-looking 
talking head as the CEO.  But increasingly the founders of
the company are the real powers, and the grey-headed man
installed by the VCs more like a
music group's manager than a general.5. InformalityIn New York, the Bubble had dramatic consequences:
suits went out of fashion.  They made one seem old.  So in
1998 powerful New York types were suddenly wearing
open-necked shirts and khakis and oval wire-rimmed glasses,
just like guys in Santa Clara.The pendulum has swung back a bit, driven in part by a panicked
reaction by the clothing industry.  But I'm betting on the
open-necked shirts.  And this is not as frivolous a question
as it might seem.  Clothes are important, as all nerds can sense,
though they may not realize it consciously.If you're a nerd, you can understand how important clothes are
by asking yourself how you'd feel about a company
that made you wear a suit and tie to work.  The idea sounds
horrible, doesn't it?  In fact, horrible far out of proportion
to the mere discomfort of wearing such clothes.  A company that
made programmers wear suits would have something deeply wrong
with it.And what would be wrong would be that how one presented oneself
counted more than the quality of one's ideas.  That's
the problem with formality.  Dressing up is not so much bad in
itself.  The problem is the receptor it binds to: dressing
up is inevitably a substitute
for good ideas.   It is no coincidence that technically
inept business types are known as "suits."Nerds don't just happen to dress informally.  They do it too
consistently.  Consciously or not, they dress informally as
a prophylactic measure against stupidity.6. NerdsClothing is only the most visible battleground in the war
against formality.  Nerds tend to eschew formality of any sort.
They're not impressed by one's job title, for example,
or any of the other appurtenances of authority.Indeed, that's practically the definition of a nerd.  I found
myself talking recently to someone from Hollywood who was planning
a show about nerds.  I thought it would be useful if I
explained what a nerd was.  What I came up with was: someone who
doesn't expend any effort on marketing himself.A nerd, in other words, is someone who concentrates on substance.
So what's the connection between nerds and technology? Roughly
that you can't fool mother nature. In technical matters, you
have to get the right answers.  If your software miscalculates
the path of a space probe, you can't finesse your way out of
trouble by saying that your code is patriotic, or avant-garde,
or any of the other dodges people use in nontechnical
fields.And as technology becomes increasingly important in the
economy, nerd culture is 
rising with it.  Nerds are already
a lot cooler than they were when I was a kid.  When I was in
college in the mid-1980s, "nerd" was still an insult.  People
who majored in computer science generally tried to conceal it.
Now women ask me where they can meet nerds.  (The answer that
springs to mind is "Usenix," but that would be like drinking
from a firehose.)I have no illusions about why nerd culture is becoming
more accepted.  It's not because people are
realizing that substance is more important than marketing.
It's because the nerds are getting 
rich.  But that is not going
to change.7. OptionsWhat makes the nerds rich, usually, is stock options.  Now there
are moves afoot to make it harder for companies to grant   
options.  To the extent there's some genuine accounting abuse 
going on, by all means correct it.  But don't kill the golden  
goose.  Equity is the fuel that drives technical innovation.Options are a good idea because (a) they're fair, and (b) they
work.  Someone who goes to work for a company is (one hopes)   
adding to its value, and it's only fair to give them a share
of it.  And as a purely practical measure, people work a lot
harder when they have options.  I've seen that first hand.The fact that a few crooks during the Bubble robbed their
companies by granting themselves options doesn't mean options
are a bad idea.  During the railroad boom, some executives
enriched themselves by selling watered stock—by issuing more
shares than they said were outstanding.  But that doesn't  
make common stock a bad idea.  Crooks just use whatever
means are available.If there is a problem with options, it's that they reward
slightly the wrong thing.  Not surprisingly, people do what you
pay them to. If you pay them by the hour, they'll work a lot of
hours.  If you pay them by the volume of work done, they'll
get a lot of work done (but only as you defined work).
And if you pay them to raise the
stock price, which is what options amount to, they'll raise
the stock price.But that's not quite what you want.  What you want is to
increase the actual value of the company, not its market cap.
Over time the two inevitably meet, but not always as quickly
as options vest.  Which means options tempt employees, if
only unconsciously, to "pump and dump"—to do things
that will make the company seem valuable.
I found that when I was at Yahoo, I couldn't help thinking,   
"how will this sound to investors?"  when I should have been
thinking "is this a good idea?"So maybe the standard option deal needs to be tweaked slightly.
Maybe options should be replaced with something tied more
directly to earnings.  It's still early days.8. StartupsWhat made the options valuable, for the most part, is
that they were options on the stock of 
startups.  Startups   
were not of course a creation of the Bubble, but they
were more visible during the Bubble than ever before.One thing most people did learn about for the first time
during the Bubble was the startup
created with the intention of selling it.
Originally a
startup meant a small company that hoped to grow into a
big one.  But increasingly startups are evolving into a
vehicle for developing technology on spec.As I wrote in
Hackers & Painters, employees seem to be most
productive when they're paid in proportion to the wealth
they generate.  And the advantage of a startup—indeed,   
almost its raison d'etre—is that it offers something
otherwise impossible to obtain: a way of measuring that.In many businesses, it just makes more sense for companies
to get technology by buying startups rather than developing   
it in house.  You pay more, but there is less risk,
and risk is what big companies don't want.  It makes the
guys developing the technology more accountable, because they
only get paid if they build the winner.  And you end up   
with better technology, created faster, because things are
made in the innovative atmosphere of startups instead of 
the bureaucratic atmosphere of big companies.Our startup, Viaweb, was built to be sold.  We were open
with investors about that from the start.  And we were     
careful to create something that could slot easily into a
larger company.  That is the pattern for the future.9. CaliforniaThe Bubble was a California phenomenon.  When I showed up
in Silicon Valley in 1998, I felt like an immigrant from
Eastern Europe arriving in America in 1900.  Everyone
was so cheerful and healthy and rich.  It seemed a new
and improved world.The press, ever eager to exaggerate small trends, now gives  
one the impression that Silicon Valley is a ghost town.
Not at all.  When I drive down 101 from the airport,
I still feel a buzz of energy, as if there were a giant
transformer nearby.  Real estate is still more expensive
than just about anywhere else in the country.  The people     
still look healthy, and the weather is still fabulous.
The future is there.
(I say "there" because I moved back to the East Coast after
Yahoo.  I still wonder if this was a smart idea.)What makes the Bay Area superior is the attitude of the
people.  I notice that when I come home to Boston.
The first thing I see when I walk out of the airline terminal
is the fat, grumpy guy in
charge of the taxi line.  I brace myself for rudeness:
remember, you're back on the East Coast now.The atmosphere varies from city to city, and fragile
organisms like startups are exceedingly sensitive to such variation.
If it hadn't already been hijacked as a new euphemism
for liberal, the word to describe the atmosphere in
the Bay Area would be "progressive."  People there are trying
to build the future.
Boston has MIT and Harvard, but it also has a lot of
truculent, unionized employees like the police who
recently held the Democratic National Convention for   
ransom, and a lot of people trying to be
 Thurston Howell.
Two sides of an obsolete coin.Silicon Valley may not be the next Paris or London, but it
is at least the next Chicago.  For the next fifty years,   
that's where new wealth will come from.10. ProductivityDuring the Bubble, optimistic analysts used to justify high
price to earnings ratios by saying that technology was going 
to increase productivity dramatically.  They were wrong about
the specific companies, but not so wrong about the underlying
principle.  I think one of the big trends we'll see in the
coming century is a huge increase in productivity.Or more precisely, a huge increase in variation in
productivity.  Technology is a lever.  It doesn't add;     
it multiplies.  If the present range of productivity is  
0 to 100, introducing a multiple of 10 increases the range
from 0 to 1000.One upshot of which is that the companies of the future may
be surprisingly small.  I sometimes daydream about how big
you could grow a company (in revenues) without ever having
more than ten people.  What would happen if you outsourced
everything except product development?  If you tried this experiment,
I think you'd be surprised at how far you could get. 
As Fred Brooks pointed out, small groups are
intrinsically more productive, because the
internal friction in a group grows as the
square of its size.Till quite recently, running a major company
meant managing an army of workers.  Our standards about how
many employees a company should have are still influenced by
old patterns.  Startups are perforce small, because they can't
afford to hire a lot of people.  But I think it's a big mistake for
companies to loosen their belts as revenues increase.  The
question is not whether you can afford the extra salaries.   
Can you afford the loss in productivity that comes from making
the company bigger?The prospect of technological leverage will of course raise the
specter of unemployment.  I'm surprised people still worry about
this.
After centuries of supposedly job-killing innovations,
the number of jobs is within ten percent of the number of people
who want them.  This can't be a coincidence.  There must be some
kind of balancing mechanism.What's NewWhen one looks over these trends, is there any overall theme?
There does seem to be: that in the coming century, good ideas
will count for more.  That 26
year olds with good ideas will increasingly have an edge over 50
year olds with powerful connections.  That doing good work will
matter more than dressing up—or advertising, which is the
same thing for companies.  That people
will be rewarded a bit more in proportion to the value of what
they create.If so, this is good news indeed.
Good ideas always tend to win eventually.  The problem is,
it can take a very long time.
It took decades for relativity to be accepted, and the
greater part of a century to establish that central planning didn't work.
So even a small increase in the
rate at which good ideas win would be a momentous
change—big enough, probably, to justify a name like
the "new economy."Notes[1] Actually it's hard to say now.  As Jeremy Siegel points
out, if the value of a stock is its future earnings, you 
can't tell if it was overvalued till you see what the earnings
turn out to be.   While certain famous Internet stocks were
almost certainly overvalued in 1999, it is still hard to say for sure
whether, e.g., the Nasdaq index was.Siegel, Jeremy J.  "What Is an Asset Price Bubble?  An
Operational Definition."  European Financial Management,
9:1, 2003.[2] The number of users comes from a 6/03 Nielsen
study quoted on Google's site.  (You'd think they'd have
something more recent.)   The revenue estimate is based on
revenues of $1.35 billion for the first half of 2004, as
reported in their IPO filing.Thanks to Chris Anderson, Trevor Blackwell, Sarah Harlin, Jessica
Livingston, and Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.The Long TailRussian TranslationJapanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

September 2004Remember the essays you had to write in high school?
Topic sentence, introductory paragraph,
supporting paragraphs, conclusion.  The conclusion being,
say, that Ahab in Moby Dick was a Christ-like figure.Oy.  So I'm going to try to give the other side of the
story: what an essay really is, and how you write one.
Or at least, how I write one.ModsThe most obvious difference between real essays and
the things one has to write in school is that real
essays are not exclusively about English literature.
Certainly schools should teach students how to
write.  But due to a series of historical accidents
the teaching of
writing has gotten mixed together with the study
of literature.  And so all over the country students are
writing not about how a baseball team with a small budget
might compete with the Yankees, or the role of color in
fashion, or what constitutes a good dessert, but about
symbolism in Dickens.With the result that writing is made to seem boring and
pointless.  Who cares about symbolism in Dickens?
Dickens himself would be more interested in an essay
about color or baseball.How did things get this way?  To answer that we have to go back
almost a thousand years.  Around 1100, Europe at last began to
catch its breath after centuries of chaos, and once they
had the luxury of curiosity they rediscovered
what we call "the classics."  The effect was rather as if
we were visited by beings from another solar system.
These earlier civilizations were so much more sophisticated
that for the next several centuries the main work of
European scholars, in almost every field, was to assimilate
what they knew.During this period the study of ancient texts acquired great
prestige.  It seemed the essence of what scholars did.  As
European scholarship gained momentum it became less and less important;
by 1350
someone who wanted to learn about science could find better
teachers than Aristotle in his own era. [1]
But schools change slower than scholarship.  In the
19th century the study of ancient texts was still the backbone
of the curriculum.The time was then ripe for the question: if the study of
ancient texts is a valid field for scholarship, why not modern
texts?  The answer, of course, is that the original raison d'etre
of classical scholarship was a kind of intellectual archaeology that
does not need to be done in the case of contemporary authors.
But for obvious reasons no one wanted to give that answer.
The archaeological work being mostly done, it implied that
those studying the classics were, if not wasting their
time, at least working on problems of minor importance.And so began the study of modern literature.  There was a good
deal of resistance at first.
The first courses in English literature
seem to have been offered by the newer colleges, particularly
American ones.  Dartmouth, the University of Vermont, Amherst,
and University College, London
taught English literature in the 1820s.

But Harvard didn't have a professor of English literature until
1876, and Oxford not till 1885. (Oxford had a chair of Chinese before
it had one of English.) [2]What tipped the scales, at least in the US, seems to have
been the idea that professors should do research as well
as teach.  This idea (along with the PhD, the department, and
indeed the whole concept of the modern university) was imported
from Germany in the late 19th century. Beginning at
Johns Hopkins in 1876, the new model spread rapidly.Writing was one of the casualties.  Colleges had long taught
English composition.  But how do you do research on composition?
The professors who taught math could be required to do original
math, the professors who taught history could be required to
write scholarly articles about history, but what about the  
professors who taught rhetoric or composition?  What should they
do research on?  The closest thing seemed to be English literature. [3]And so in the late 19th century the teaching of writing was inherited
by English professors.  This had two drawbacks:
(a) an expert on literature need not himself be a good writer,
any more than an art historian has to be a good painter, and (b)
the subject of writing now tends to be literature, since that's
what the professor is interested in.High schools imitate universities.  The seeds of our miserable
high school experiences were sown in 1892, when
the National Education Association
"formally recommended that literature
and composition be unified in the high school course." [4]
The 'riting component of the 3 Rs then morphed into English,
with the bizarre consequence that high school students now
had to write about English literature-- to write, without
even realizing it, imitations of whatever
English professors had been publishing in their journals a   
few decades before.It's no wonder if this seems to the
student a pointless exercise, because we're now three steps
removed from real work: the students are imitating English
professors, who are imitating classical scholars, who are
merely the inheritors of a tradition growing out of what
was, 700 years ago, fascinating and urgently needed work.No DefenseThe other big difference between a real essay and the things
they make you write in school is that a real essay doesn't
take a position and then defend it.  That principle,
like the idea that we ought to be writing about literature,
turns out to be another intellectual hangover of long
forgotten origins.It's often mistakenly believed that
medieval universities were mostly seminaries.  In fact they
were more law schools.  And at least in our tradition
lawyers are advocates, trained to take
either side of an argument and make as good a case for it
as they can.
Whether cause or effect, this spirit pervaded
early universities.  The study of rhetoric, the art of arguing
persuasively, was a third of the undergraduate curriculum. [5]
And after the lecture the most common form
of discussion was the disputation.  This is at least
nominally preserved in our present-day thesis defense:
most people treat the words thesis
and dissertation as interchangeable, but originally, at least,
a thesis was a position one took and the dissertation was
the argument by which one defended it.Defending a position may be a necessary evil in a
legal dispute, but it's not the best way to get at the truth,
as I think lawyers would be the first to admit.  It's not
just that you miss subtleties this way.
The real problem is that you can't change the question.And yet this principle is built into the very structure of
the things they teach you to write in high school.  The topic  
sentence is your thesis, chosen in advance, the supporting
paragraphs the blows you strike in the conflict, and the
conclusion-- uh, what is the conclusion?  I was never sure
about that in high school.  It seemed as if we were just
supposed to restate what we said in the first paragraph,
but in different enough words that no one could tell.
Why bother?
But when you understand the origins
of this sort of "essay," you can see where the
conclusion comes from.  It's the concluding remarks to the   
jury.Good writing should be convincing, certainly, but it
should be convincing because you got the right answers,
not because you did a good job of arguing.  When I give a 
draft of an essay to friends, there are two things
I want to know: which parts bore them, and which seem   
unconvincing.  The boring bits can usually be fixed by   
cutting.  But I don't try to fix the unconvincing bits by
arguing more cleverly.  I need to talk the matter over.At the very least I must have explained something badly.  In
that case, in the course of the conversation I'll be forced
to come up a with a clearer explanation, which I can just
incorporate in the essay.  More often than not I have
to change what I was saying as well.
But the aim is never to be convincing per se.
As the reader gets smarter, convincing and true become identical,
so if I can convince smart readers I must be near the truth.The sort of writing that attempts to persuade may be
a valid (or at least inevitable) form, but it's historically
inaccurate to call it an essay.  An essay is 
something else.TryingTo understand what a real essay is, we have to
reach back into history again, though this time not so far.
To Michel de Montaigne, who in 1580 published a book of
what he called "essais." He was
doing something quite different from what lawyers do, and
the difference is embodied in the name.  Essayer is the French
verb meaning "to try"
and an essai is an attempt.  An essay is something you
write to try to figure something out.Figure out what?  You don't know yet.  And so you can't begin with a
thesis, because you don't have one, and may never have
one.  An essay doesn't begin with a statement, but with a
question.  In a real essay, you don't take a position and
defend it.  You notice a door that's ajar, and you open it and
walk in to see what's inside.If all you want to do is figure things out, why do you need
to write anything, though?  Why not just sit and think?  Well,
there precisely is Montaigne's great discovery.  Expressing    
ideas helps to form them.  Indeed, helps is far too weak a
word.  Most of what ends up in my essays I only
thought of when I sat down to write them.  That's why I   
write them.In the things you write in school you are, in theory,
merely explaining yourself to the reader.
In a real essay you're writing for yourself.
You're thinking out loud.But not quite.
Just as inviting people over forces you to
clean up your apartment, writing something that
other people will read forces you to think well.  So it
does matter to have an audience.  The things I've written
just for myself are no good.
They tend to peter out.  When I run into
difficulties, I find I conclude with a few vague
questions and then drift off to get a cup of tea.Many published essays peter out in the same way.
Particularly the sort written by the staff writers 
of newsmagazines.  Outside writers tend to supply
editorials of the defend-a-position variety, which
make a beeline toward a rousing (and
foreordained) conclusion.   But the staff writers feel
obliged to write something "balanced."
Since they're writing for a popular magazine, they start with the
most radioactively controversial questions, from which-- because
they're writing for a popular magazine-- they
then proceed to recoil in terror.
Abortion, for or against?
This group says one thing.  That group says
another.  One thing is certain: the question is a
complex one.  (But don't get mad at us.  We didn't
draw any conclusions.)The RiverQuestions aren't enough.  An essay has to come up with answers.
They don't always, of course.  Sometimes you start with a
promising question and get nowhere.  But those you don't   
publish.  Those are like experiments that get inconclusive
results.   An essay you publish ought to tell the reader       
something he didn't already know.But what you tell him doesn't matter, so long as    
it's interesting.  I'm sometimes accused of meandering.
In defend-a-position writing that would be a flaw.
There you're not concerned with truth.  You already
know where you're going, and you want to go straight there,
blustering through obstacles, and hand-waving
your way across swampy ground.  But that's not what
you're trying to do in an essay.  An essay is supposed to
be a search for truth.  It would be suspicious if it didn't
meander.The Meander (aka Menderes) is a river in Turkey.
As you might expect, it winds all over the place.
But it doesn't do this out of frivolity.
The path it has discovered is the most
economical route to the sea. [6]The river's algorithm is simple.  At each step, flow down.
For the essayist this translates to: flow interesting.   
Of all the places to go next, choose the most interesting.
One can't have quite as little foresight as a river.  I always
know generally what I want to write about.
But not the
specific conclusions I want to reach; from paragraph to
paragraph I let the ideas take their course.This doesn't always work.  Sometimes, like a river,
one runs up against a wall.  Then I do the same thing the river does:
backtrack.  At one point in this essay
I found that after following a certain thread I ran out
of ideas.  I had to go back seven paragraphs and start over
in another direction.Fundamentally an essay is a train of thought-- but a cleaned-up
train of thought, as dialogue is cleaned-up conversation.
Real thought, like real conversation, is full of false starts.
It would be exhausting to read.  You need to 
cut and fill to
emphasize the central thread, like an
illustrator inking over a pencil drawing.  But don't
change so much that you lose the spontaneity of the original.Err on the side of the river.  An essay is not a reference
work.  It's not something you read looking for a specific
answer, and feel cheated if you don't find it.  I'd much
rather read an essay that went off in an unexpected but
interesting direction than one that plodded dutifully along
a prescribed course.SurpriseSo what's interesting?  For me, interesting means surprise.
Interfaces, as Geoffrey James has said, should follow the principle of
least astonishment.   A button that looks like it will make a
machine stop should make it stop, not speed up.  Essays    
should do the opposite.  Essays should aim for maximum
surprise.I was afraid of flying for a long time and could only travel
vicariously.  When friends came back from faraway places,
it wasn't just out of politeness that I asked
what they saw.  I really wanted to know.  And I found
the best way to get information out of them was to ask
what surprised them.  How was the place different from what
they expected?  This is an extremely useful question.
You can ask it of the most unobservant people, and it will 
extract information they didn't even know they were
recording.Surprises are things that you not only didn't know, but that
contradict things you
thought you knew.  And so they're the most valuable sort of
fact you can get.  They're like a food that's not merely
healthy, but counteracts the unhealthy effects of things
you've already eaten.How do you find surprises?  Well, therein lies half
the work of essay writing.  (The other half is expressing
yourself well.)   The trick is to use yourself as a
proxy for the reader.  You should only write about things
you've thought about a lot.  And anything you come across
that surprises you, who've thought about the topic a lot,
will probably surprise most readers.For example, in a recent 
essay I pointed out that because
you can only judge computer programmers by working with
them, no one knows who the best programmers are overall.
I didn't realize this when I began
that essay, and even now I find it kind of weird.  That's
what you're looking for.So if you want to write essays, you need two ingredients:
a few topics you've thought about a lot, and
some ability to ferret out the unexpected.What should you think about?  My guess is that it
doesn't matter-- that anything can be interesting if you get deeply
enough into it.  One possible exception might be things
that have deliberately had all the variation sucked out of them,
like working in fast food.  In retrospect, was there
anything interesting about working at Baskin-Robbins?
Well, it was interesting how important color was
to the customers.  Kids a certain age would point into
the case and say that they wanted yellow.  Did they want 
French Vanilla or Lemon?  They would just look at you   
blankly.  They wanted yellow.  And then there was the  
mystery of why the perennial favorite Pralines 'n' Cream   
was so appealing.  (I think now it was the salt.)

And the difference in the way fathers and
mothers bought ice cream for their kids: the fathers
like benevolent kings bestowing largesse, the mothers
harried, giving in to pressure.
So, yes, there does seem to be some material even in
fast food.I didn't notice those things at the time, though.  At sixteen
I was about as observant as a lump of rock.  I can see more now in
the fragments of memory I preserve of that age than I could see
at the time from having it all happening live, right in front of me.ObservationSo the ability to ferret out the unexpected must not merely be an
inborn one.  It must be something you can learn.
How do you learn it?To some extent it's like learning history.
When you first read
history, it's just a whirl of names
and dates.  
Nothing seems to stick.  But the more you learn, the more hooks you have
for new facts to stick onto-- which means
you accumulate knowledge at an exponential rate.  Once you
remember that Normans conquered
England in 1066, it will catch your attention when you hear
that other Normans conquered southern Italy at about the same time.
Which will make you wonder about Normandy, and take note
when a third book mentions that Normans
were not, like most of what is now
called France, tribes that flowed in as the Roman empire collapsed,
but Vikings (norman = north man) who arrived
four centuries later in 911.  Which makes
it easier to remember that Dublin was also established by
Vikings in the 840s.  Etc, etc squared.Collecting surprises is a similar process.
The more anomalies you've seen, the more easily you'll notice
new ones.   Which means, oddly enough, that as you grow older,
life should become more and more surprising.  When I was a
kid, I used to think adults had it all figured out.
I had it backwards.  Kids are the ones who have it all figured  
out.  They're just mistaken.When it comes to surprises, the rich get richer.  But
(as with wealth) there
may be habits of mind that will help the process along.  It's
good to have a habit of asking questions, especially questions
beginning with Why.
But not in the random way that three year
olds ask why.  There are an infinite number of questions.
How do you find the fruitful ones?I find it especially
useful to ask why about things that seem wrong.
For example, why should there be a connection between
humor and misfortune?  Why do we find it funny when a
character, even one we like, slips on a banana peel?
There's a whole essay's worth of surprises there for sure.If you want to notice things that seem wrong, you'll find a
degree of skepticism helpful.  I take it as an axiom
that we're only achieving 1% of what we could.
This helps counteract the rule that gets beaten into our
heads as children: that things are the way they are because
that is how things have to be.
For example, everyone I've talked to while writing this essay  
felt the same about
English classes-- that the whole process seemed pointless.
But none of us had the balls at the time to hypothesize that
it was, in fact, all a mistake.
We all thought there was just something we weren't getting.I have a hunch you want to pay attention not just to things
that seem wrong, but things that seem wrong in a humorous way.  
I'm always pleased when I see someone laugh as they
read a draft of an essay.  But why should I be?  I'm aiming
for good ideas.  Why should good ideas be funny?
The connection may be surprise.
Surprises make us laugh, and surprises are what
one wants to deliver.I write down things that surprise me in notebooks.  I never
actually get around to reading them and using
what I've written, but I do tend to
reproduce the same thoughts later.  So the main value
of notebooks may be what writing things down leaves in your
head.People trying to be cool will find themselves at a disadvantage
when collecting surprises.  To be surprised is to be mistaken.
And the essence of cool, as any fourteen year old could tell
you, is nil admirari.  When you're mistaken, don't
dwell on it; just act like nothing's wrong and maybe no one
will notice.One of the keys to coolness is to avoid situations where
inexperience may make you look foolish. 
If you want to find surprises you should do the opposite.
Study lots of different things,
because some of the most interesting surprises are unexpected
connections between different fields.  For example, 
jam, bacon, pickles, and cheese, which are among the most pleasing
of foods, were all originally intended as methods of preservation.
And so were books and paintings.Whatever you study, include history-- but social and economic
history, not political history.  History seems to me so important
that it's misleading to treat it as a mere field of study.
Another way to describe it is all the data we have so far.Among other things, studying history gives one confidence that
there are good ideas waiting to be discovered right under our noses.
Swords evolved during the Bronze Age out of daggers, which
(like their flint predecessors) had a hilt separate from the
blade.  Because swords are longer
the hilts kept breaking off.  But it took five hundred years
before someone thought of casting hilt and blade as one
piece.DisobedienceAbove all, make a habit of paying
attention to things you're not supposed to, either because 
they're "inappropriate," 
or not important, or not what you're
supposed to be working on.  If you're curious about something,
trust your instincts.
Follow the threads that attract your
attention.  If there's something you're really interested
in, you'll find they have an uncanny way of leading back to
it anyway, just as the conversation of people who are especially
proud of something always tends to lead back to it.For example, I've always been fascinated by comb-overs, especially
the extreme sort that
make a man look as if he's wearing a beret made of his own hair.
Surely this is a lowly sort of thing to be interested in-- the
sort of superficial quizzing
best left to teenage girls.  And yet there is something underneath.
The key question, I realized, is how does the comber-over not
see how odd he looks?
And the answer is that he got to look that way incrementally.
What began as combing his hair a little carefully over a
thin patch has gradually, over 20 years, grown into a monstrosity.
Gradualness is very powerful.  And that power can be
used for constructive purposes too: just as you can trick
yourself into looking like a freak, you can trick yourself into
creating something so grand that you would never have dared to
plan such a thing.  Indeed, this is just how most good
software gets created.  You start by writing a stripped-down
kernel (how hard can it be?) and gradually it grows
into a complete operating system.  Hence the next leap: could
you do the same thing in painting, or in a novel?See what you can extract from a frivolous question?
If there's one piece of advice I would give about writing essays,
it would be: don't do as you're told.
Don't believe what you're supposed to.
Don't write the
essay readers expect; one learns nothing from
what one expects.
And
don't write the way they taught you to in school.The most important sort of disobedience is to write
essays at all.  Fortunately, this sort of disobedience shows
signs of becoming 
rampant. 
It used to be that only a tiny
number of officially approved writers were allowed to
write essays.  Magazines published few of them, and judged
them less by what they said than who wrote them;
a magazine might publish a story by an
unknown writer if it was good enough, but if they published
an essay on x it had to be by someone who was at least
forty and whose job title had x in it.  Which is a problem,
because there are a lot of things insiders can't say precisely
because they're insiders.The Internet is changing that.
Anyone can publish an essay on the Web, and it gets judged, as any
writing should, by what it says, not who wrote it.
Who are you to write about x?  You are whatever you wrote.Popular magazines made the period between the spread
of literacy and the arrival of TV the golden age of the
short story.
The Web may well make this the golden age of the essay.
And that's certainly not something I realized when
I started writing this.Notes[1] I'm thinking of Oresme (c. 1323-82).  But it's hard to pick
a date, because there was a sudden drop-off in scholarship
just as Europeans finished assimilating classical science.
The cause may have been the plague of 1347; the trend in
scientific progress matches the population curve.[2] Parker, William R. "Where Do College English Departments
Come From?" College English 28 (1966-67), pp. 339-351.
Reprinted in Gray, Donald J. (ed). The Department of
English at Indiana University Bloomington 1868-1970. Indiana
University Publications.Daniels, Robert V. The University of Vermont: The First
Two Hundred Years. University of Vermont, 1991.Mueller, Friedrich M. Letter to the Pall Mall
Gazette. 1886/87. Reprinted in Bacon, Alan (ed).
The Nineteenth-Century
History of English Studies. Ashgate, 1998.[3] I'm compressing the story a bit.
At first
literature took a back seat to philology, which (a) seemed more 
serious and (b) was popular in Germany, where many of the
leading scholars of that generation had been trained.In some cases the writing teachers were transformed
in situ into English professors.
Francis James Child, who had been Boylston Professor
of Rhetoric at Harvard since 1851,
became in 1876 the university's first professor of English.[4] Parker, op. cit., p. 25.[5] The undergraduate curriculum or trivium (whence
"trivial") consisted of Latin grammar, rhetoric, and logic.  
Candidates for masters' degrees went on to study the
quadrivium of arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy.
Together these were the seven liberal arts.The study of rhetoric was inherited directly from Rome, where
it was considered the most important
subject.  It would not be far from the truth to say that  
education in the classical world
meant training landowners' sons
to speak well enough to defend their interests
in political and legal disputes.[6] Trevor Blackwell points out that this
isn't strictly true, because the outside  
edges of curves erode faster.Thanks to Ken Anderson, Trevor Blackwell, Sarah Harlin, Jessica
Livingston, Jackie McDonough, and Robert Morris for reading drafts of
this.Russian TranslationSpanish TranslationJapanese TranslationHungarian TranslationTraditional Chinese Translation
If you liked this, you may also like
Hackers & Painters.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

August 2004In a recent talk I said something that upset a lot of
people: that you could get smarter programmers to work on
a Python project than you could to work on a Java project.I didn't mean by this that Java programmers are dumb.  I
meant that Python programmers are smart. It's a lot of
work to learn a new programming language.  And people don't
learn Python because it will get them a job; they learn it
because they genuinely like to program and aren't satisfied with the languages they
already know.Which makes them exactly the kind of programmers
companies should want to hire.  Hence what, for lack of a better
name, I'll call the Python paradox: if a company chooses to write
its software in a comparatively esoteric language, they'll be able 
to hire better programmers, because they'll attract only those
who cared enough to learn it.  And for 
programmers the paradox is even more pronounced: the language
to learn, if you want to get a good job, is a language that
people don't learn merely to get a job.Only a few companies have been smart enough to realize this 
so far.  But there is a kind of selection going on here too: they're 
exactly the companies programmers would
most like to work for.  Google, for example.  When they     
advertise Java programming jobs, they also want Python experience.A friend of mine who knows nearly all the widely used languages
uses Python for most of his projects.  He says the main reason
is that he likes the way source code looks.  That may seem
a frivolous reason to choose one language over another.
But it is not so frivolous as it sounds: when you program,
you spend more time reading code than writing it.
You push blobs of source code around the way a sculptor does
blobs of clay.  So a language that makes source code ugly is
maddening to an exacting programmer, as clay full of lumps
would be to a sculptor.At the mention of ugly source code, people will of course think
of Perl.  But the superficial ugliness of Perl is not the sort
I mean.  Real ugliness is not harsh-looking
syntax, but having to build programs out of the wrong
concepts.  Perl may look like a cartoon character swearing,
but there are 
cases where it surpasses Python conceptually.So far, anyway. Both languages are of course 
moving targets.  But they
share, along with Ruby (and Icon, and Joy, and J, and Lisp,
and Smalltalk) the fact that
they're created by, and used by, people who really care about
programming.   And those tend to be the ones who do it well.Turkish TranslationJapanese TranslationPortuguese TranslationItalian TranslationPolish TranslationRomanian TranslationRussian TranslationSpanish TranslationFrench TranslationTelugu Translation
If you liked this, you may also like
Hackers & Painters.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


July 2004(This essay is derived from a talk at Oscon 2004.)
A few months ago I finished a new 
book, 
and in reviews I keep
noticing words like "provocative'' and "controversial.'' To say
nothing of "idiotic.''I didn't mean to make the book controversial.  I was trying to make
it efficient.  I didn't want to waste people's time telling them
things they already knew.  It's more efficient just to give them
the diffs.  But I suppose that's bound to yield an alarming book.EdisonsThere's no controversy about which idea is most controversial:
the suggestion that variation in wealth might not be as big a
problem as we think.I didn't say in the book that variation in wealth was in itself a
good thing.  I said in some situations it might be a sign of good
things.  A throbbing headache is not a good thing, but it can be
a sign of a good thing-- for example, that you're recovering
consciousness after being hit on the head.Variation in wealth can be a sign of variation in productivity.
(In a society of one, they're identical.) And that
is almost certainly a good thing: if your society has no variation
in productivity, it's probably not because everyone is Thomas
Edison.  It's probably because you have no Thomas Edisons.In a low-tech society you don't see much variation in productivity.
If you have a tribe of nomads collecting sticks for a fire, how
much more productive is the best stick gatherer going to be than
the worst?  A factor of two?  Whereas when you hand people a complex tool
like a computer, the variation in what they can do with
it is enormous.That's not a new idea.  Fred Brooks wrote about it in 1974, and
the study he quoted was published in 1968.  But I think he
underestimated the variation between programmers.  He wrote about productivity in lines
of code:  the best programmers can solve a given problem in a tenth
the time.  But what if the problem isn't given? In programming, as
in many fields, the hard part isn't solving problems, but deciding
what problems to solve.  Imagination is hard to measure, but
in practice it dominates the kind of productivity that's measured
in lines of code.Productivity varies in any field, but there are few in which it
varies so much.  The variation between programmers
is so great that it becomes a difference in kind.  I don't
think this is something intrinsic to programming, though.  In every field,
technology magnifies differences in productivity.  I think what's
happening in programming is just that we have a lot of technological
leverage.  But in every field the lever is getting longer, so the
variation we see is something that more and more fields will see
as time goes on.  And the success of companies, and countries, will
depend increasingly on how they deal with it.If variation in productivity increases with technology, then the
contribution of the most productive individuals will not only be
disproportionately large, but will actually grow with time.  When
you reach the point where 90% of a group's output is created by 1%
of its members, you lose big if something (whether Viking raids,
or central planning) drags their productivity down to the average.If we want to get the most out of them, we need to understand these
especially productive people.  What motivates them?  What do they
need to do their jobs?  How do you recognize them? How do you
get them to come and work for you?  And then of course there's the
question, how do you become one?More than MoneyI know a handful of super-hackers, so I sat down and thought about
what they have in common.  Their defining quality is probably that
they really love to program.  Ordinary programmers write code to pay
the bills.  Great hackers think of it as something they do for fun,
and which they're delighted to find people will pay them for.Great programmers are sometimes said to be indifferent to money.
This isn't quite true.  It is true that all they really care about
is doing interesting work.  But if you make enough money, you get
to work on whatever you want, and for that reason hackers are
attracted by the idea of making really large amounts of money.
But as long as they still have to show up for work every day, they
care more about what they do there than how much they get paid for
it.Economically, this is a fact of the greatest importance, because
it means you don't have to pay great hackers anything like what
they're worth.  A great programmer might be ten or a hundred times
as productive as an ordinary one, but he'll consider himself lucky
to get paid three times as much.  As I'll explain later, this is
partly because great hackers don't know how good they are.  But
it's also because money is not the main thing they want.What do hackers want?  Like all craftsmen, hackers like good tools.
In fact, that's an understatement.  Good hackers find it unbearable
to use bad tools.  They'll simply refuse to work on projects with
the wrong infrastructure.At a startup I once worked for, one of the things pinned up on our
bulletin board was an ad from IBM.  It was a picture of an AS400,
and the headline read, I think, "hackers despise
it.'' [1]When you decide what infrastructure to use for a project, you're
not just making a technical decision.  You're also making a social
decision, and this may be the more important of the two.  For
example, if your company wants to write some software, it might
seem a prudent choice to write it in Java.  But when you choose a
language, you're also choosing a community.  The programmers you'll
be able to hire to work on a Java project won't be as
smart as the
ones you could get to work on a project written in Python.
And the quality of your hackers probably matters more than the
language you choose.  Though, frankly, the fact that good hackers
prefer Python to Java should tell you something about the relative
merits of those languages.Business types prefer the most popular languages because they view
languages as standards. They don't want to bet the company on
Betamax.  The thing about languages, though, is that they're not
just standards.  If you have to move bits over a network, by all
means use TCP/IP.  But a programming language isn't just a format.
A programming language is a medium of expression.I've read that Java has just overtaken Cobol as the most popular
language.  As a standard, you couldn't wish for more.  But as a
medium of expression, you could do a lot better.  Of all the great
programmers I can think of, I know of only one who would voluntarily
program in Java.  And of all the great programmers I can think of
who don't work for Sun, on Java, I know of zero.Great hackers also generally insist on using open source software.
Not just because it's better, but because it gives them more control.
Good hackers insist on control.  This is part of what makes them
good hackers:  when something's broken, they need to fix it.  You
want them to feel this way about the software they're writing for
you.  You shouldn't be surprised when they feel the same way about
the operating system.A couple years ago a venture capitalist friend told me about a new
startup he was involved with.  It sounded promising.  But the next
time I talked to him, he said they'd decided to build their software
on Windows NT, and had just hired a very experienced NT developer
to be their chief technical officer.  When I heard this, I thought,
these guys are doomed.  One, the CTO couldn't be a first rate
hacker, because to become an eminent NT developer he would have
had to use NT voluntarily, multiple times, and I couldn't imagine
a great hacker doing that; and two, even if he was good, he'd have
a hard time hiring anyone good to work for him if the project had
to be built on NT. [2]The Final FrontierAfter software, the most important tool to a hacker is probably
his office.  Big companies think the function of office space is to express
rank.  But hackers use their offices for more than that: they
use their office as a place to think in.  And if you're a technology
company, their thoughts are your product.  So making hackers work
in a noisy, distracting environment is like having a paint factory
where the air is full of soot.The cartoon strip Dilbert has a lot to say about cubicles, and with
good reason.  All the hackers I know despise them.  The mere prospect
of being interrupted is enough to prevent hackers from working on
hard problems.  If you want to get real work done in an office with
cubicles, you have two options: work at home, or come in early or
late or on a weekend, when no one else is there.  Don't companies
realize this is a sign that something is broken?  An office
environment is supposed to be something that helps
you work, not something you work despite.Companies like Cisco are proud that everyone there has a cubicle,
even the CEO.  But they're not so advanced as they think; obviously
they still view office space as a badge of rank.  Note too that
Cisco is famous for doing very little product development in house.
They get new technology by buying the startups that created it-- where
presumably the hackers did have somewhere quiet to work.One big company that understands what hackers need is Microsoft.
I once saw a recruiting ad for Microsoft with a big picture of a
door.  Work for us, the premise was, and we'll give you a place to
work where you can actually get work done.   And you know, Microsoft
is remarkable among big companies in that they are able to develop
software in house.  Not well, perhaps, but well enough.If companies want hackers to be productive, they should look at
what they do at home.  At home, hackers can arrange things themselves
so they can get the most done.  And when they work at home, hackers
don't work in noisy, open spaces; they work in rooms with doors.  They
work in cosy, neighborhoody places with people around and somewhere
to walk when they need to mull something over, instead of in glass
boxes set in acres of parking lots.  They have a sofa they can take
a nap on when they feel tired, instead of sitting in a coma at
their desk, pretending to work.  There's no crew of people with
vacuum cleaners that roars through every evening during the prime
hacking hours.  There are no meetings or, God forbid, corporate
retreats or team-building exercises.  And when you look at what
they're doing on that computer, you'll find it reinforces what I
said earlier about tools.  They may have to use Java and Windows
at work, but at home, where they can choose for themselves, you're
more likely to find them using Perl and Linux.Indeed, these statistics about Cobol or Java being the most popular
language can be misleading.  What we ought to look at, if we want
to know what tools are best, is what hackers choose when they can
choose freely-- that is, in projects of their own.  When you ask
that question, you find that open source operating systems already
have a dominant market share, and the number one language is probably
Perl.InterestingAlong with good tools, hackers want interesting projects.  What
makes a project interesting?  Well, obviously overtly sexy
applications like stealth planes or special effects software would
be interesting to work on.  But any application can be interesting
if it poses novel technical challenges.  So it's hard to predict
which problems hackers will like, because some become
interesting only when the people working on them discover a new
kind of solution.  Before ITA
(who wrote the software inside Orbitz),
the people working on airline fare searches probably thought it
was one of the most boring applications imaginable.  But ITA made
it interesting by 
redefining the problem in a more ambitious way.I think the same thing happened at Google.  When Google was founded,
the conventional wisdom among the so-called portals was that search
was boring and unimportant.  But the guys at Google didn't think
search was boring, and that's why they do it so well.This is an area where managers can make a difference.  Like a parent
saying to a child, I bet you can't clean up your whole room in
ten minutes, a good manager can sometimes redefine a problem as a
more interesting one.  Steve Jobs seems to be particularly good at
this, in part simply by having high standards.  There were a lot
of small, inexpensive computers before the Mac.  He redefined the
problem as: make one that's beautiful.  And that probably drove
the developers harder than any carrot or stick could.They certainly delivered.  When the Mac first appeared, you didn't
even have to turn it on to know it would be good; you could tell
from the case.  A few weeks ago I was walking along the street in
Cambridge, and in someone's trash I saw what appeared to be a Mac
carrying case.  I looked inside, and there was a Mac SE.  I carried
it home and plugged it in, and it booted.  The happy Macintosh
face, and then the finder.  My God, it was so simple.  It was just
like ... Google.Hackers like to work for people with high standards.  But it's not
enough just to be exacting.  You have to insist on the right things.
Which usually means that you have to be a hacker yourself.  I've
seen occasional articles about how to manage programmers.  Really
there should be two articles: one about what to do if
you are yourself a programmer, and one about what to do if you're not.  And the 
second could probably be condensed into two words:  give up.The problem is not so much the day to day management.  Really good
hackers are practically self-managing.  The problem is, if you're
not a hacker, you can't tell who the good hackers are.  A similar
problem explains why American cars are so ugly.  I call it the
design paradox.  You might think that you could make your products
beautiful just by hiring a great designer to design them.  But if
you yourself don't have good taste, 
how are you going to recognize
a good designer?  By definition you can't tell from his portfolio.
And you can't go by the awards he's won or the jobs he's had,
because in design, as in most fields, those tend to be driven by
fashion and schmoozing, with actual ability a distant third.
There's no way around it:  you can't manage a process intended to
produce beautiful things without knowing what beautiful is.  American
cars are ugly because American car companies are run by people with
bad taste.Many people in this country think of taste as something elusive,
or even frivolous.  It is neither.  To drive design, a manager must
be the most demanding user of a company's products.  And if you
have really good taste, you can, as Steve Jobs does, make satisfying
you the kind of problem that good people like to work on.Nasty Little ProblemsIt's pretty easy to say what kinds of problems are not interesting:
those where instead of solving a few big, clear, problems, you have
to solve a lot of nasty little ones.  One of the worst kinds of
projects is writing an interface to a piece of software that's
full of bugs.  Another is when you have to customize
something for an individual client's complex and ill-defined needs.
To hackers these kinds of projects are the death of a thousand
cuts.The distinguishing feature of nasty little problems is that you
don't learn anything from them.   Writing a compiler is interesting
because it teaches you what a compiler is.  But writing an interface
to a buggy piece of software doesn't teach you anything, because the
bugs are random.  [3] So it's not just fastidiousness that makes good
hackers avoid nasty little problems.  It's more a question of
self-preservation.  Working on nasty little problems makes you
stupid.  Good hackers avoid it for the same reason models avoid
cheeseburgers.Of course some problems inherently have this character.  And because
of supply and demand, they pay especially well.  So a company that
found a way to get great hackers to work on tedious problems would
be very successful.  How would you do it?One place this happens is in startups.  At our startup we had 
Robert Morris working as a system administrator.  That's like having the
Rolling Stones play at a bar mitzvah.  You can't hire that kind of
talent.  But people will do any amount of drudgery for companies
of which they're the founders.  [4]Bigger companies solve the problem by partitioning the company.
They get smart people to work for them by establishing a separate
R&D department where employees don't have to work directly on
customers' nasty little problems. [5] In this model, the research
department functions like a mine. They produce new ideas; maybe
the rest of the company will be able to use them.You may not have to go to this extreme.  
Bottom-up programming
suggests another way to partition the company: have the smart people
work as toolmakers.  If your company makes software to do x, have
one group that builds tools for writing software of that type, and
another that uses these tools to write the applications.  This way
you might be able to get smart people to write 99% of your code,
but still keep them almost as insulated from users as they would
be in a traditional research department.  The toolmakers would have
users, but they'd only be the company's own developers.  [6]If Microsoft used this approach, their software wouldn't be so full
of security holes, because the less smart people writing the actual
applications wouldn't be doing low-level stuff like allocating
memory.  Instead of writing Word directly in C, they'd be plugging
together big Lego blocks of Word-language.  (Duplo, I believe, is
the technical term.)ClumpingAlong with interesting problems, what good hackers like is other
good hackers.  Great hackers tend to clump together-- sometimes
spectacularly so, as at Xerox Parc.   So you won't attract good
hackers in linear proportion to how good an environment you create
for them.  The tendency to clump means it's more like the square
of the environment.  So it's winner take all.  At any given time,
there are only about ten or twenty places where hackers most want to
work, and if you aren't one of them, you won't just have fewer
great hackers, you'll have zero.Having great hackers is not, by itself, enough to make a company
successful.  It works well for Google and ITA, which are two of
the hot spots right now, but it didn't help Thinking Machines or
Xerox.  Sun had a good run for a while, but their business model
is a down elevator.  In that situation, even the best hackers can't
save you.I think, though, that all other things being equal, a company that
can attract great hackers will have a huge advantage.  There are
people who would disagree with this.  When we were making the rounds
of venture capital firms in the 1990s, several told us that software
companies didn't win by writing great software, but through brand,
and dominating channels, and doing the right deals.They really seemed to believe this, and I think I know why.  I
think what a lot of VCs are looking for, at least unconsciously,
is the next Microsoft.  And of course if Microsoft is your model,
you shouldn't be looking for companies that hope to win by writing
great software.  But VCs are mistaken to look for the next Microsoft,
because no startup can be the next Microsoft unless some other
company is prepared to bend over at just the right moment and be
the next IBM.It's a mistake to use Microsoft as a model, because their whole
culture derives from that one lucky break.  Microsoft is a bad data
point.  If you throw them out, you find that good products do tend
to win in the market.  What VCs should be looking for is the next
Apple, or the next Google.I think Bill Gates knows this.  What worries him about Google is
not the power of their brand, but the fact that they have
better hackers. [7]RecognitionSo who are the great hackers?  How do you know when you meet one?
That turns out to be very hard.  Even hackers can't tell.  I'm
pretty sure now that my friend Trevor Blackwell is a great hacker.
You may have read on Slashdot how he made his 
own Segway.  The
remarkable thing about this project was that he wrote all the
software in one day (in Python, incidentally).For Trevor, that's
par for the course.  But when I first met him, I thought he was a
complete idiot.  He was standing in Robert Morris's office babbling
at him about something or other, and I remember standing behind
him making frantic gestures at Robert to shoo this nut out of his
office so we could go to lunch.  Robert says he misjudged Trevor
at first too.  Apparently when Robert first met him, Trevor had
just begun a new scheme that involved writing down everything about
every aspect of his life on a stack of index cards, which he carried
with him everywhere.  He'd also just arrived from Canada, and had
a strong Canadian accent and a mullet.The problem is compounded by the fact that hackers, despite their
reputation for social obliviousness, sometimes put a good deal of
effort into seeming smart.  When I was in grad school I used to
hang around the MIT AI Lab occasionally. It was kind of intimidating
at first.  Everyone there spoke so fast.  But after a while I
learned the trick of speaking fast.  You don't have to think any
faster; just use twice as many words to say everything.  With this amount of noise in the signal, it's hard to tell good
hackers when you meet them.  I can't tell, even now.  You also
can't tell from their resumes.  It seems like the only way to judge
a hacker is to work with him on something.And this is the reason that high-tech areas 
only happen around universities.  The active ingredient
here is not so much the professors as the students.  Startups grow up
around universities because universities bring together promising young
people and make them work on the same projects.  The
smart ones learn who the other smart ones are, and together
they cook up new projects of their own.Because you can't tell a great hacker except by working with him,
hackers themselves can't tell how good they are.  This is true to
a degree in most fields.  I've found that people who
are great at something are not so much convinced of their own
greatness as mystified at why everyone else seems so incompetent.
But it's particularly hard for hackers to know how good they are,
because it's hard to compare their work.  This is easier in most
other fields.  In the hundred meters, you know in 10 seconds who's
fastest.  Even in math there seems to be a general consensus about
which problems are hard to solve, and what constitutes a good
solution.  But hacking is like writing.  Who can say which of two
novels is better?  Certainly not the authors.With hackers, at least, other hackers can tell.  That's because,
unlike novelists, hackers collaborate on projects.  When you get
to hit a few difficult problems over the net at someone, you learn
pretty quickly how hard they hit them back.  But hackers can't
watch themselves at work.  So if you ask a great hacker how good
he is, he's almost certain to reply, I don't know.  He's not just
being modest.  He really doesn't know.And none of us know, except about people we've actually worked
with.  Which puts us in a weird situation: we don't know who our
heroes should be.  The hackers who become famous tend to become
famous by random accidents of PR.  Occasionally I need to give an
example of a great hacker, and I never know who to use.  The first
names that come to mind always tend to be people I know personally,
but it seems lame to use them.  So, I think, maybe I should say
Richard Stallman, or Linus Torvalds, or Alan Kay, or someone famous
like that.  But I have no idea if these guys are great hackers.
I've never worked with them on anything.If there is a Michael Jordan of hacking, no one knows, including
him.CultivationFinally, the question the hackers have all been wondering about:
how do you become a great hacker?  I don't know if it's possible
to make yourself into one.  But it's certainly possible to do things
that make you stupid, and if you can make yourself stupid, you
can probably make yourself smart too.The key to being a good hacker may be to work on what you like.
When I think about the great hackers I know, one thing they have
in common is the extreme 
difficulty of making them work 
on anything they
don't want to.  I don't know if this is cause or effect; it may be
both.To do something well you have to love it.  
So to the extent you
can preserve hacking as something you love, you're likely to do it
well.  Try to keep the sense of wonder you had about programming at
age 14.  If you're worried that your current job is rotting your
brain, it probably is.The best hackers tend to be smart, of course, but that's true in
a lot of fields.  Is there some quality that's unique to hackers?
I asked some friends, and the number one thing they mentioned was
curiosity.  
I'd always supposed that all smart people were curious--
that curiosity was simply the first derivative of knowledge.  But
apparently hackers are particularly curious, especially about how
things work.  That makes sense, because programs are in effect
giant descriptions of how things work.Several friends mentioned hackers' ability to concentrate-- their
ability, as one put it, to "tune out everything outside their own
heads.''  I've certainly noticed this.  And I've heard several 
hackers say that after drinking even half a beer they can't program at
all.   So maybe hacking does require some special ability to focus.
Perhaps great hackers can load a large amount of context into their
head, so that when they look at a line of code, they see not just
that line but the whole program around it.  John McPhee
wrote that Bill Bradley's success as a basketball player was due
partly to his extraordinary peripheral vision.  "Perfect'' eyesight
means about 47 degrees of vertical peripheral vision.  Bill Bradley
had 70; he could see the basket when he was looking at the floor.
Maybe great hackers have some similar inborn ability.  (I cheat by
using a very dense language, 
which shrinks the court.)This could explain the disconnect over cubicles.  Maybe the people
in charge of facilities, not having any concentration to shatter,
have no idea that working in a cubicle feels to a hacker like having
one's brain in a blender.  (Whereas Bill, if the rumors of autism
are true, knows all too well.)One difference I've noticed between great hackers and smart people
in general is that hackers are more 
politically incorrect.  To the
extent there is a secret handshake among good hackers, it's when they
know one another well enough to express opinions that would get
them stoned to death by the general public.  And I can see why
political incorrectness would be a useful quality in programming.
Programs are very complex and, at least in the hands of good
programmers, very fluid.  In such situations it's helpful to have
a habit of questioning assumptions.Can you cultivate these qualities?  I don't know.  But you can at
least not repress them.  So here is my best shot at a recipe.  If
it is possible to make yourself into a great hacker, the way to do
it may be to make the following deal with yourself: you never have
to work on boring projects (unless your family will starve otherwise),
and in return, you'll never allow yourself to do a half-assed job.
All the great hackers I know seem to have made that deal, though
perhaps none of them had any choice in the matter.Notes
[1] In fairness, I have to say that IBM makes decent hardware.  I
wrote this on an IBM laptop.[2] They did turn out to be doomed.  They shut down a few months
later.[3] I think this is what people mean when they talk
about the "meaning of life."  On the face of it, this seems an 
odd idea.  Life isn't an expression; how could it have meaning?
But it can have a quality that feels a lot like meaning.  In a project
like a compiler, you have to solve a lot of problems, but the problems
all fall into a pattern, as in a signal.  Whereas when the problems
you have to solve are random, they seem like noise.
[4] Einstein at one point worked designing refrigerators. (He had equity.)[5] It's hard to say exactly what constitutes research in the
computer world, but as a first approximation, it's software that
doesn't have users.I don't think it's publication that makes the best hackers want to work
in research departments.  I think it's mainly not having to have a
three hour meeting with a product manager about problems integrating
the Korean version of Word 13.27 with the talking paperclip.[6] Something similar has been happening for a long time in the
construction industry. When you had a house built a couple hundred
years ago, the local builders built everything in it.  But increasingly
what builders do is assemble components designed and manufactured
by someone else.  This has, like the arrival of desktop publishing,
given people the freedom to experiment in disastrous ways, but it
is certainly more efficient.[7] Google is much more dangerous to Microsoft than Netscape was.
Probably more dangerous than any other company has ever been.  Not
least because they're determined to fight.  On their job listing
page, they say that one of their "core values'' is "Don't be evil.''
From a company selling soybean oil or mining equipment, such a
statement would merely be eccentric.  But I think all of us in the
computer world recognize who that is a declaration of war on.Thanks to Jessica Livingston, Robert Morris, and Sarah Harlin
for reading earlier versions of this talk.Audio of talkThe Python ParadoxJapanese TranslationRussian TranslationItalian TranslationSpanish Translation

If you liked this, you may also like
Hackers & Painters.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

May 2004When people care enough about something to do it well, those who
do it best tend to be far better than everyone else.  There's a
huge gap between Leonardo and second-rate contemporaries like
Borgognone.  You see the same gap between Raymond Chandler and the
average writer of detective novels.  A top-ranked professional chess
player could play ten thousand games against an ordinary club player
without losing once.Like chess or painting or writing novels, making money is a very
specialized skill.   But for some reason we treat this skill
differently.  No one complains when a few people surpass all the
rest at playing chess or writing novels, but when a few people make
more money than the rest, we get editorials saying this is wrong.Why?  The pattern of variation seems no different than for any other
skill.  What causes people to react so strongly when the skill is
making money?I think there are three reasons we treat making money as different:
the misleading model of wealth we learn as children; the disreputable
way in which, till recently, most fortunes were accumulated; and
the worry that great variations in income are somehow bad for
society.  As far as I can tell, the first is mistaken, the second
outdated, and the third empirically false.  Could it be that, in a
modern democracy, variation in income is actually a sign of health?The Daddy Model of WealthWhen I was five I thought electricity was created by electric
sockets.  I didn't realize there were power plants out there
generating it.  Likewise, it doesn't occur to most kids that wealth
is something that has to be generated.  It seems to be something
that flows from parents.Because of the circumstances in which they encounter it, children
tend to misunderstand wealth.  They confuse it with money.  They
think that there is a fixed amount of it.  And they think of it as
something that's distributed by authorities (and so should be
distributed equally), rather than something that has to be created
(and might be created unequally).In fact, wealth is not money.  Money is just a convenient way of
trading one form of wealth for another.  Wealth is the underlying
stuff—the goods and services we buy.  When you travel to a
rich or poor country, you don't have to look at people's bank
accounts to tell which kind you're in.  You can see
wealth—in buildings and streets, in the clothes and the health
of the people.Where does wealth come from?  People make it.  This was easier to
grasp when most people lived on farms, and made many of the things
they wanted with their own hands.  Then you could see in the house,
the herds, and the granary the wealth that each family created.  It
was obvious then too that the wealth of the world was not a fixed
quantity that had to be shared out, like slices of a pie.  If you
wanted more wealth, you could make it.This is just as true today, though few of us create wealth directly
for ourselves (except for a few vestigial domestic tasks).  Mostly
we create wealth for other people in exchange for money, which we
then trade for the forms of wealth we want. 
[1]Because kids are unable to create wealth, whatever they have has
to be given to them.  And when wealth is something you're given,
then of course it seems that it should be distributed equally.
[2]
As in most families it is.  The kids see to that.  "Unfair," they
cry, when one sibling gets more than another.In the real world, you can't keep living off your parents.  If you
want something, you either have to make it, or do something of
equivalent value for someone else, in order to get them to give you
enough money to buy it.  In the real world, wealth is (except for
a few specialists like thieves and speculators) something you have
to create, not something that's distributed by Daddy.  And since
the ability and desire to create it vary from person to person,
it's not made equally.You get paid by doing or making something people want, and those
who make more money are often simply better at doing what people
want.  Top actors make a lot more money than B-list actors.  The
B-list actors might be almost as charismatic, but when people go
to the theater and look at the list of movies playing, they want
that extra oomph that the big stars have.Doing what people want is not the only way to get money, of course.
You could also rob banks, or solicit bribes, or establish a monopoly.
Such tricks account for some variation in wealth, and indeed for
some of the biggest individual fortunes, but they are not the root
cause of variation in income.  The root cause of variation in income,
as Occam's Razor implies, is the same as the root cause of variation
in every other human skill.In the United States, the CEO of a large public company makes about
100 times as much as the average person. 
[3]
Basketball players
make about 128 times as much, and baseball players 72 times as much.
Editorials quote this kind of statistic with horror.  But I have
no trouble imagining that one person could be 100 times as productive
as another.  In ancient Rome the price of slaves varied by
a factor of 50 depending on their skills. 
[4]
And that's without
considering motivation, or the extra leverage in productivity that
you can get from modern technology.Editorials about athletes' or CEOs' salaries remind me of early
Christian writers, arguing from first principles about whether the
Earth was round, when they could just walk outside and check.
[5]
How much someone's work is worth is not a policy question.  It's
something the market already determines."Are they really worth 100 of us?" editorialists ask.  Depends on
what you mean by worth.  If you mean worth in the sense of what
people will pay for their skills, the answer is yes, apparently.A few CEOs' incomes reflect some kind of wrongdoing.  But are there
not others whose incomes really do reflect the wealth they generate?
Steve Jobs saved a company that was in a terminal decline.  And not
merely in the way a turnaround specialist does, by cutting costs;
he had to decide what Apple's next products should be.  Few others
could have done it.  And regardless of the case with CEOs, it's
hard to see how anyone could argue that the salaries of professional
basketball players don't reflect supply and demand.It may seem unlikely in principle that one individual could really
generate so much more wealth than another.  The key to this mystery
is to revisit that question, are they really worth 100 of us?
Would a basketball team trade one of their players for 100
random people?  What would Apple's next product look like if you
replaced Steve Jobs with a committee of 100 random people? 
[6]
These
things don't scale linearly.  Perhaps the CEO or the professional
athlete has only ten times (whatever that means) the skill and
determination of an ordinary person.  But it makes all the difference
that it's concentrated in one individual.When we say that one kind of work is overpaid and another underpaid,
what are we really saying?  In a free market, prices are determined
by what buyers want.  People like baseball more than  poetry, so
baseball players make more than poets.  To say that a certain kind
of work is underpaid is thus identical with saying that people want
the wrong things.Well, of course people want the wrong things.  It seems odd to be
surprised by that.  And it seems even odder to say that it's
unjust that certain kinds of work are underpaid. 
[7]
Then
you're saying that it's unjust that people want the wrong things.
It's  lamentable that people prefer reality TV and corndogs to
Shakespeare and steamed vegetables, but unjust?  That seems like
saying that blue is heavy, or that up is circular.The appearance of the word "unjust" here is the unmistakable spectral
signature of the Daddy Model.  Why else would this idea occur in
this odd context?  Whereas if the speaker were still operating on
the Daddy Model, and saw wealth as something that flowed from a
common source and had to be shared out, rather than something
generated by doing what other people wanted, this is exactly what
you'd get on noticing that some people made much more than others.When we talk about "unequal distribution of income," we should
also ask, where does that income come from?
[8]
Who made the wealth
it represents?  Because to the extent that income varies simply
according to how much wealth people create, the distribution may
be unequal, but it's hardly unjust.Stealing ItThe second reason we tend to find great disparities of wealth
alarming is that for most of human history the usual way to accumulate
a fortune was to steal it: in pastoral societies by cattle raiding;
in agricultural societies by appropriating others' estates in times
of war, and taxing them in times of peace.In conflicts, those on the winning side would receive the estates
confiscated from the losers.  In England in the 1060s, when William
the Conqueror distributed the estates of the defeated Anglo-Saxon
nobles to his followers, the conflict was military.  By the 1530s,
when Henry VIII distributed the estates of the monasteries to his
followers, it was mostly political. 
[9]
But the principle was the
same.  Indeed, the same principle is at work now in Zimbabwe.In more organized societies, like China, the ruler and his officials
used taxation instead of confiscation.  But here too we see the
same principle: the way to get rich was not to create wealth, but
to serve a ruler powerful enough to appropriate it.This started to change in Europe with the rise of the middle class.
Now we think of the middle class as people who are neither rich nor
poor, but originally they were a distinct group.  In a feudal
society, there are just two classes: a warrior aristocracy, and the
serfs who work their estates.  The middle class were a new, third
group who lived in towns and supported themselves by manufacturing
and trade.Starting in the tenth and eleventh centuries, petty nobles and
former serfs banded together in towns that gradually became powerful
enough to ignore the local feudal lords. 
[10]
Like serfs, the middle
class made a living largely by creating wealth.  (In port cities
like Genoa and Pisa, they also engaged in piracy.) But unlike serfs
they had an incentive to create a lot of it.  Any wealth a serf
created belonged to his master.  There was not much point in making
more than you could hide.  Whereas the independence of the townsmen
allowed them to keep whatever wealth they created.Once it became possible to get rich by creating wealth, society as
a whole started to get richer very rapidly.  Nearly everything we
have was created by the middle class.  Indeed, the other two classes
have effectively disappeared in industrial societies, and their
names been given to either end of the middle class.  (In the original
sense of the word, Bill Gates is middle class.)But it was not till the Industrial Revolution that wealth creation
definitively replaced corruption as the best way to get rich.  In
England, at least, corruption only became unfashionable (and in
fact only started to be called "corruption") when there started to
be other, faster ways to get rich.Seventeenth-century England was much like the third world today,
in that government office was a recognized route to wealth.  The
great fortunes of that time still derived more from what we would
now call corruption than from commerce. 
[11]
By the nineteenth
century that had changed.  There continued to be bribes, as there
still are everywhere, but politics had by then been left to men who
were driven more by vanity than greed.  Technology had made it
possible to create wealth faster than you could steal it.  The
prototypical rich man of the nineteenth century was not a courtier
but an industrialist.With the rise of the middle class, wealth stopped being a zero-sum
game.  Jobs and Wozniak didn't have to make us poor to make themselves
rich.  Quite the opposite: they created things that made our lives
materially richer.  They had to, or we wouldn't have paid for them.But since for most of the world's history the main route to wealth
was to steal it, we tend to be suspicious of rich people.  Idealistic
undergraduates find their unconsciously preserved child's model of
wealth confirmed by eminent writers of the past.  It is a case of
the mistaken meeting the outdated."Behind every great fortune, there is a crime," Balzac wrote.  Except
he didn't.  What he actually said was that a great fortune with no
apparent cause was probably due to a crime well enough executed
that it had been forgotten.  If we were talking about Europe in
1000, or most of the third world today, the standard misquotation
would be spot on.  But Balzac lived in nineteenth-century France,
where the Industrial Revolution was well advanced.  He knew you
could make a fortune without stealing it.  After all, he did himself,
as a popular novelist.
[12]Only a few countries (by no coincidence, the richest ones) have
reached this stage.  In most, corruption still has the upper hand.
In most, the fastest way to get wealth is by stealing it.  And so
when we see increasing differences in income in a rich country,
there is a tendency to worry that it's sliding back toward becoming
another Venezuela.  I think the opposite is happening. I think
you're seeing a country a full step ahead of Venezuela.The Lever of TechnologyWill technology increase the gap between rich and poor?  It will
certainly increase the gap between the productive and the unproductive.
That's the whole point of technology.   With a tractor an energetic
farmer could plow six times as much land in a day as he could with
a team of horses.  But only if he mastered a new kind of farming.I've seen the lever of technology grow visibly in my own time.  In
high school I made money by mowing lawns and scooping ice cream at
Baskin-Robbins.  This was the only kind of work available at the
time.  Now high school kids could write software or design web
sites.  But only some of them will; the rest will still be scooping
ice cream.I remember very vividly when in 1985 improved technology made it
possible for me to buy a computer of my own.  Within months I was
using it to make money as a freelance programmer.  A few years
before, I couldn't have done this.  A few years before, there was
no such thing as a freelance programmer.  But Apple created
wealth, in the form of powerful, inexpensive computers, and programmers
immediately set to work using it to create more.As this example suggests, the rate at which technology increases
our productive capacity is probably exponential, rather than linear.
So we should expect to see ever-increasing variation in individual
productivity as time goes on.   Will that increase the gap between
rich and the poor?  Depends which gap you mean.Technology should increase the gap in income, but it seems to
decrease other gaps.  A hundred years ago, the rich led a different
kind of life from ordinary people.  They lived in houses
full of servants, wore elaborately uncomfortable clothes, and
travelled about in carriages drawn by teams of horses which themselves
required their own houses and servants.  Now, thanks to technology,
the rich live more like the average person.Cars are a good example of why.  It's possible to buy expensive,
handmade cars that cost hundreds of thousands of dollars.  But there
is not much point.  Companies make more money by building a large
number of ordinary cars than a small number of expensive ones.  So
a company making a mass-produced car can afford to spend a lot more
on its design.  If you buy a custom-made car, something will always
be breaking.  The only point of buying one now is to advertise that
you can.Or consider watches.  Fifty years ago, by spending a lot of money
on a watch you could get better performance.  When watches had
mechanical movements, expensive watches kept better time.  Not any
more.  Since the invention of the quartz movement, an ordinary Timex
is more accurate than a Patek Philippe costing hundreds of thousands
of dollars.
[13]
Indeed, as with expensive cars, if you're determined
to spend a lot of money on a watch, you have to put up with some
inconvenience to do it: as well as keeping worse time, mechanical
watches have to be wound.The only thing technology can't cheapen is brand.  Which is precisely
why we hear ever more about it.  Brand is the residue left as the
substantive differences between rich and poor evaporate.  But what
label you have on your stuff is a much smaller matter than having
it versus not having it.  In 1900, if you kept a carriage, no one
asked what year or brand it was.  If you had one, you were rich.
And if you weren't rich, you took the omnibus or walked.  Now even
the poorest Americans drive cars, and it is only because we're so
well trained by advertising that we can even recognize the especially
expensive ones.
[14]The same pattern has played out in industry after industry.  If
there is enough demand for something, technology will make it cheap
enough to sell in large volumes, and the mass-produced versions
will be, if not better, at least more convenient.
[15]
And there
is nothing the rich like more than convenience.  The rich people I
know drive the same cars, wear the same clothes, have the same kind
of furniture, and eat the same foods as my other friends.  Their
houses are in different neighborhoods, or if in the same neighborhood
are different sizes, but within them life is similar.  The houses
are made using the same construction techniques and contain much
the same objects.  It's inconvenient to do something expensive and
custom.The rich spend their time more like everyone else too.  Bertie
Wooster seems long gone.  Now, most people who are rich enough not
to work do anyway.  It's not just social pressure that makes them;
idleness is lonely and demoralizing.Nor do we have the social distinctions there were a hundred years
ago.   The novels and etiquette manuals of that period read now
like descriptions of some strange tribal society.  "With respect
to the continuance of friendships..." hints Mrs. Beeton's Book
of Household Management (1880), "it may be found necessary, in
some cases, for a mistress to relinquish, on assuming the responsibility
of a household, many of those commenced in the earlier part of her
life." A woman who married a rich man was expected to drop friends
who didn't.  You'd seem a barbarian if you behaved that way today.
You'd also have a very boring life.  People still tend to segregate
themselves somewhat, but much more on the basis of education than
wealth.
[16]Materially and socially, technology seems to be decreasing the gap
between the rich and the poor, not increasing it.  If Lenin walked
around the offices of a company like Yahoo or Intel or Cisco, he'd
think communism had won.  Everyone would be wearing the same clothes,
have the same kind of office (or rather, cubicle) with the same
furnishings, and address one another by their first names instead
of by honorifics.  Everything would seem exactly as he'd predicted,
until he looked at their bank accounts.  Oops.Is it a problem if technology increases that gap?  It doesn't seem
to be so far.  As it increases the gap in income, it seems to
decrease most other gaps.Alternative to an AxiomOne often hears a policy criticized on the grounds that it would
increase the income gap between rich and poor.  As if it were an
axiom that this would be bad.  It might be true that increased
variation in income would be bad, but I don't see how we can say
it's axiomatic.Indeed, it may even be false, in industrial democracies.  In a
society of serfs and warlords, certainly, variation in income is a
sign of an underlying problem.  But serfdom is not the only cause
of variation in income.  A 747 pilot doesn't make 40 times as much
as a checkout clerk because he is a warlord who somehow holds her
in thrall.  His skills are simply much more valuable.I'd like to propose an alternative idea: that in a modern society,
increasing variation in income is a sign of health.  Technology
seems to increase the variation in productivity at faster than
linear rates.  If we don't see corresponding variation in income,
there are three possible explanations: (a) that technical innovation
has stopped, (b) that the people who would create the most wealth
aren't doing it, or (c) that they aren't getting paid for it.I think we can safely say that (a) and (b) would be bad.  If you
disagree, try living for a year using only the resources available
to the average Frankish nobleman in 800, and report back to us.
(I'll be generous and not send you back to the stone age.)The only option, if you're going to have an increasingly prosperous
society without increasing variation in income, seems to be (c),
that people will create a lot of wealth without being paid for it.
That Jobs and Wozniak, for example, will cheerfully work 20-hour
days to produce the Apple computer for a society that allows them,
after taxes, to keep just enough of their income to match what they
would have made working 9 to 5 at a big company.Will people create wealth if they can't get paid for it?  Only if
it's fun.  People will write operating systems for free.  But they
won't install them, or take support calls, or train customers to
use them.  And at least 90% of the work that even the highest tech
companies do is of this second, unedifying kind.All the unfun kinds of wealth creation slow dramatically in a society
that confiscates private fortunes.  We can confirm this empirically.
Suppose you hear a strange noise that you think may be due to a
nearby fan.  You turn the fan off, and the noise stops.  You turn
the fan back on, and the noise starts again.  Off, quiet.  On,
noise.  In the absence of other information, it would seem the noise
is caused by the fan.At various times and places in history, whether you could accumulate
a fortune by creating wealth has been turned on and off.  Northern
Italy in 800, off (warlords would steal it).  Northern Italy in
1100, on.  Central France in 1100, off (still feudal).  England in
1800, on.  England in 1974, off (98% tax on investment income).
United States in 1974, on.  We've even had a twin study: West
Germany, on;  East Germany, off.  In every case, the creation of
wealth seems to appear and disappear like the noise of a fan as you
switch on and off the prospect of keeping it.There is some momentum involved.  It probably takes at least a
generation to turn people into East Germans (luckily for England).
But if it were merely a fan we were studying, without all the extra
baggage that comes from the controversial topic of wealth, no one
would have any doubt that the fan was causing the noise.If you suppress variations in income, whether by stealing private
fortunes, as feudal rulers used to do, or by taxing them away, as
some modern governments have done, the result always seems to be
the same.    Society as a whole ends up poorer.If I had a choice of living in a society where I was materially
much better off than I am now, but was among the poorest, or in one
where I was the richest, but much worse off than I am now, I'd take
the first option.  If I had children, it would arguably be immoral
not to.  It's absolute poverty you want to avoid, not relative
poverty.  If, as the evidence so far implies, you have to have one
or the other in your society, take relative poverty.You need rich people in your society not so much because in spending
their money they create jobs, but because of what they have to do
to get rich.  I'm not talking about the trickle-down effect
here.  I'm not saying that if you let Henry Ford get rich, he'll
hire you as a waiter at his next party.  I'm saying that he'll make
you a tractor to replace your horse.Notes[1]
Part of the reason this subject is so contentious is that some
of those most vocal on the subject of wealth—university
students, heirs, professors, politicians, and journalists—have
the least experience creating it.  (This phenomenon will be familiar
to anyone who has overheard conversations about sports in a bar.)Students are mostly still on the parental dole, and have not stopped
to think about where that money comes from.  Heirs will be on the
parental dole for life.  Professors and politicians live within
socialist eddies of the economy, at one remove from the creation
of wealth, and are paid a flat rate regardless of how hard they
work.  And journalists as part of their professional code segregate
themselves from the revenue-collecting half of the businesses they
work for (the ad sales department).  Many of these people never
come face to face with the fact that the money they receive represents
wealth—wealth that, except in the case of journalists, someone
else created earlier.  They live in a world in which income is
doled out by a central authority according to some abstract notion
of fairness (or randomly, in the case of heirs), rather than given
by other people in return for something they wanted, so it may seem
to them unfair that things don't work the same in the rest of the
economy.(Some professors do create a great deal of wealth for
society.  But the money they're paid isn't a quid pro quo.
It's more in the nature of an investment.)[2]
When one reads about the origins of the Fabian Society, it
sounds like something cooked up by the high-minded Edwardian
child-heroes of Edith Nesbit's The Wouldbegoods.[3]
According to a study by the Corporate Library, the median total
compensation, including salary, bonus, stock grants, and the exercise
of stock options, of S&P 500 CEOs in 2002 was $3.65 million.
According to Sports Illustrated, the average NBA player's
salary during the 2002-03 season was $4.54 million, and the average
major league baseball player's salary at the start of the 2003
season was $2.56 million.  According to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, the mean annual wage in the US in 2002 was $35,560.[4]
In the early empire the price of an ordinary adult slave seems
to have been about 2,000 sestertii (e.g. Horace, Sat. ii.7.43).
A servant girl cost 600 (Martial vi.66), while Columella (iii.3.8)
says that a skilled vine-dresser was worth 8,000.  A doctor, P.
Decimus Eros Merula, paid 50,000 sestertii for his freedom (Dessau,
Inscriptiones 7812).  Seneca (Ep. xxvii.7) reports
that one Calvisius Sabinus paid 100,000 sestertii apiece for slaves
learned in the Greek classics.  Pliny (Hist. Nat. vii.39)
says that the highest price paid for a slave up to his time was
700,000 sestertii, for the linguist (and presumably teacher) Daphnis,
but that this had since been exceeded by actors buying their own
freedom.Classical Athens saw a similar variation in prices.  An ordinary
laborer was worth about 125 to 150 drachmae.  Xenophon (Mem.
ii.5) mentions prices ranging from 50 to 6,000 drachmae (for the
manager of a silver mine).For more on the economics of ancient slavery see:Jones, A. H. M., "Slavery in the Ancient World," Economic History
Review, 2:9 (1956), 185-199, reprinted in Finley, M. I. (ed.),
Slavery in Classical Antiquity, Heffer, 1964.[5]
Eratosthenes (276—195 BC) used shadow lengths in different
cities to estimate the Earth's circumference.  He was off by only
about 2%.[6]
No, and Windows, respectively.[7]
One of the biggest divergences between the Daddy Model and
reality is the valuation of hard work.  In the Daddy Model, hard
work is in itself deserving.  In reality, wealth is measured by
what one delivers, not how much effort it costs.  If I paint someone's
house, the owner shouldn't pay me extra for doing it with a toothbrush.It will seem to someone still implicitly operating on the Daddy
Model that it is unfair when someone works hard and doesn't get
paid much.  To help clarify the matter, get rid of everyone else
and put our worker on a desert island, hunting and gathering fruit.
If he's bad at it he'll work very hard and not end up with much
food.  Is this unfair?  Who is being unfair to him?[8]
Part of the reason for the tenacity of the Daddy Model may be
the dual meaning of "distribution." When economists talk about
"distribution of income," they mean statistical distribution.  But
when you use the phrase frequently, you can't help associating it
with the other sense of the word (as in e.g. "distribution of alms"),
and thereby subconsciously seeing wealth as something that flows
from some central tap.  The word "regressive" as applied to tax
rates has a similar effect, at least on me; how can anything
regressive be good?[9]
"From the beginning of the reign Thomas Lord Roos was an assiduous
courtier of the young Henry VIII and was soon to reap the rewards.
In 1525 he was made a Knight of the Garter and given the Earldom
of Rutland.  In the thirties his support of the breach with Rome,
his zeal in crushing the Pilgrimage of Grace, and his readiness to
vote the death-penalty in the succession of spectacular treason
trials that punctuated Henry's erratic matrimonial progress made
him an obvious candidate for grants of monastic property."Stone, Lawrence, Family and Fortune: Studies in Aristocratic
Finance in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries, Oxford
University Press, 1973, p. 166.[10]
There is archaeological evidence for large settlements earlier,
but it's hard to say what was happening in them.Hodges, Richard and David Whitehouse, Mohammed, Charlemagne and
the Origins of Europe, Cornell University Press, 1983.[11]
William Cecil and his son Robert were each in turn the most
powerful minister of the crown, and both used their position to
amass fortunes among the largest of their times.  Robert in particular
took bribery to the point of treason.  "As Secretary of State and
the leading advisor to King James on foreign policy, [he] was a
special recipient of favour, being offered large bribes by the Dutch
not to make peace with Spain, and large bribes by Spain to make
peace." (Stone, op. cit., p. 17.)[12]
Though Balzac made a lot of money from writing, he was notoriously
improvident and was troubled by debts all his life.[13]
A Timex will gain or lose about .5 seconds per day.  The most
accurate mechanical watch, the Patek Philippe 10 Day Tourbillon,
is rated at -1.5 to +2 seconds.  Its retail price is about $220,000.[14]
If asked to choose which was more expensive, a well-preserved
1989 Lincoln Town Car ten-passenger limousine ($5,000) or a 2004
Mercedes S600 sedan ($122,000), the average Edwardian might well
guess wrong.[15]
To say anything meaningful about income trends, you have to
talk about real income, or income as measured in what it can buy.
But the usual way of calculating real income ignores much of the
growth in wealth over time, because it depends on a consumer price
index created by bolting end to end a series of numbers that are
only locally accurate, and that don't include the prices of new
inventions until they become so common that their prices stabilize.So while we might think it was very much better to live in a world
with antibiotics or air travel or an electric power grid than
without, real income statistics calculated in the usual way will
prove to us that we are only slightly richer for having these things.Another approach would be to ask, if you were going back to the
year x in a time machine, how much would you have to spend on trade
goods to make your fortune?  For example, if you were going back
to 1970 it would certainly be less than $500, because the processing
power you can get for $500 today would have been worth at least
$150 million in 1970.  The function goes asymptotic fairly quickly,
because for times over a hundred years or so you could get all you
needed in present-day trash.  In 1800 an empty plastic drink bottle
with a screw top would have seemed a miracle of workmanship.[16]
Some will say this amounts to the same thing, because the rich
have better opportunities for education.  That's a valid point.  It
is still possible, to a degree, to buy your kids' way into top
colleges by sending them to private schools that in effect hack the
college admissions process.According to a 2002 report by the National Center for Education
Statistics, about 1.7% of American kids attend private, non-sectarian
schools.  At Princeton, 36% of the class of 2007 came from such
schools.  (Interestingly, the number at Harvard is significantly
lower, about 28%.)  Obviously this is a huge loophole.  It does at
least seem to be closing, not widening.Perhaps the designers of admissions processes should take a lesson
from the example of computer security, and instead of just assuming
that their system can't be hacked, measure the degree to which it
is.Spanish Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


May 2004
(This essay was originally published in Hackers 
& Painters.)
If you wanted to get rich, how would you do it? I think your best
bet would be to start or join a startup.  That's been a 
reliable way to get rich for hundreds of years.  The word "startup" 
dates from the 1960s, but what happens in one is 
very similar to the venture-backed trading voyages of the
Middle Ages.Startups usually involve technology, so much so that the phrase
"high-tech startup" is almost redundant.  A startup is a small
company that takes on a hard technical problem.Lots of people get rich knowing nothing more than that.
You don't have to know physics to be a good pitcher.  But
I think it could give you an edge to understand the underlying principles.
Why do startups have to be small?  
Will a startup inevitably stop being a startup as it
grows larger?  
And why do they so often work on
developing new technology?   Why are there so many startups
selling new drugs or computer software, and none selling corn oil
or laundry detergent?The PropositionEconomically, you can think of a startup as a way to 
compress your whole working life into a few years.  Instead
of working at a low intensity for forty years, you work as
hard as you possibly can for four.  This pays especially well
in technology, where you earn a premium for working fast.Here is a brief sketch of the economic proposition.  If you're
a good hacker in your mid twenties, you can
get a job paying about $80,000 per year.  So on average 
such a hacker must be
able to do at least $80,000 worth of work per year for the 
company just to break even.  You could probably
work twice as many hours as a corporate employee, and if
you focus you can probably get three times as much done in
an hour. 
[1]
You should get another multiple of two, at
least, by eliminating the drag 
of the pointy-haired middle
manager who would be your boss in a big company.
Then there is one more multiple: how much smarter are you
than your job description expects you to be?
Suppose another multiple of three.  Combine all these multipliers, and I'm
claiming you could be 36 times more 
productive than you're expected to be in a random corporate
job. 
[2]
  If a fairly good hacker is worth $80,000 a year at a 
big company, then a smart
hacker working very hard without any corporate
bullshit to slow him down should be able to do work worth about
$3 million a year.Like all back-of-the-envelope calculations, this one
has a lot of wiggle room.  I wouldn't try to
defend the actual numbers.  But I stand by the 
structure of the calculation.  I'm not claiming
the multiplier is precisely 36, but it is certainly more
than 10, and probably rarely as high as 100.If $3 million a year seems
high, remember that we're talking about the limit case:
the case where you not only have zero leisure time
but indeed work so hard that you endanger your health.Startups are not magic.  They don't change the laws of
wealth creation.  They just represent a point at the far end of the curve.
There is a conservation law at work here: if
you want to make a million dollars, you have to endure a 
million dollars' worth of pain.  
For example, one way to
make a million dollars would be to work for the 
Post Office your whole life, and save every penny of your 
salary.  Imagine the stress of working for the Post 
Office for fifty years.   In a startup you compress all
this stress into three or four years.  You do tend to get a 
certain 
bulk discount if you buy the economy-size pain,
but you can't evade the fundamental conservation law.
If starting a startup were easy, everyone would do it.Millions, not BillionsIf $3 million a year seems high to some people, it will seem
low to others.  Three million? 
How do I get to be a billionaire, like Bill Gates?So let's get Bill Gates out of the way right now.  It's not
a good idea to use famous rich people 
as examples, because the press only 
write about the very richest, and these tend to be outliers.
Bill Gates is a smart, determined, and hardworking man,
but you need more than
that to make as much money as he has.  You also need to be
very lucky.There is a large random
factor in the success of any company.  So the guys you end 
up reading about in the papers are the ones who are very 
smart, totally dedicated, and win the lottery.
Certainly Bill is smart and dedicated, but Microsoft also 
happens to have been the beneficiary of one of the most spectacular
blunders in the history of business: the licensing deal for
DOS.  No doubt Bill did 
everything he could to steer IBM into making that blunder, 
and he has done an excellent job of exploiting it, but if
there had been one person with a brain on IBM's side,
Microsoft's future would have been very different.
Microsoft at that stage had little leverage over IBM.
They were effectively a component supplier.  If IBM had 
required an exclusive license, as they should have, Microsoft
would still have signed the deal.  It would still have
meant a lot of money for them,  and IBM
could easily have gotten an operating system elsewhere.Instead IBM ended up using all its power in the market
to give Microsoft control of the PC standard.  From 
that point, all Microsoft had to do was execute.  They
never had to bet the company on a bold decision.  All they
had to do was play hardball with licensees and copy more
innovative products reasonably promptly.If IBM hadn't made this mistake, Microsoft would
still have been a successful company, but it
could not have grown so big so fast. 
Bill Gates would be rich, but he'd be somewhere
near the bottom of the Forbes 400 with the other guys his age.There are a lot of ways to get
rich, and this essay is about only one of them.  This
essay is about how to make money by creating wealth and
getting paid for it.  There are plenty of other ways to 
get money, including chance, speculation, marriage, inheritance, 
theft, extortion, fraud, monopoly,
graft, lobbying,
counterfeiting, and prospecting.  Most of the greatest fortunes
have probably involved several of these.The advantage of creating wealth, as a way to get rich,
is not just that it's more legitimate 
(many of the other methods are now illegal) 
but that it's more
straightforward.  You just have to do something people want.Money Is Not WealthIf you want to create wealth, it will help to understand what it is.  
Wealth is not the same thing as money. 
[3]
  Wealth is as old as
human history.  Far older, in fact; ants have wealth. 
Money is a comparatively recent invention.Wealth is the fundamental thing.  Wealth is stuff we want: food, 
clothes, houses, cars, gadgets, travel to interesting places,
and so on.  You can have wealth without
having money.  If you had a magic machine that
could on command make you a car or cook you dinner or do your
laundry, or do anything else you wanted, you wouldn't need money.
Whereas if you were in the middle of Antarctica, where there is
nothing to buy, it wouldn't matter how much money you had.Wealth is what you want, not money.  But if wealth is the important
thing, why does everyone talk about making money?   It is
a kind of shorthand: money is a way of moving wealth, and in practice
they are usually interchangeable.  But they are not the same thing,
and unless you plan to get rich by counterfeiting, talking about
making money can make it harder to understand how to 
make money.Money is a side effect of specialization.
In a specialized society, most of the
things you need, you can't make for yourself.  If you want a potato
or a pencil or a place to live, you have to get it from someone
else.How do you get the person who grows the potatoes to give you some?
By giving him something he wants in return.  But you can't get
very far by trading things directly with the people who
need them.  If you make violins, and none of the local
farmers wants one, how will you eat?The solution societies find, as they get more specialized, is to
make the trade into a two-step process.  Instead of trading violins
directly for potatoes, you trade violins for, say, silver, 
which you can then trade again for anything else you need.  The
intermediate stuff-- the medium of exchange-- can be anything that's
rare and portable.  Historically metals have been the most common,
but recently we've been using a medium of exchange, called the dollar,
that doesn't physically exist.  It works as a medium of exchange,
however, because its rarity 
is guaranteed by the U.S. Government.The advantage of a medium of exchange is that it makes trade work.
The disadvantage is that it tends to obscure what trade really
means.  People think that what a business does is make money.
But money is just the intermediate stage-- just
a shorthand-- for whatever people want.
What most businesses really do is make  
wealth.  They do something people want. 
[4]The Pie FallacyA surprising number of people retain from childhood the idea
that there is a fixed amount of wealth in the world. 
There is, in any normal family, a fixed amount of money at 
any moment.  But that's not the same thing.When wealth is talked about in this context, it is often
described as a pie.  "You can't make the pie larger,"
say politicians.
When you're
talking about the amount of money in one family's bank
account, or the amount available to a government from one
year's tax revenue, this is true.  
If one person gets more, someone else has to get less.I can remember believing, as a child, that if a few
rich people had all the money, it left less for everyone else.
Many people seem to continue to believe something like this
well into adulthood.  This fallacy is usually there in the 
background when you hear someone talking about how x percent
of the population have y percent of the wealth.  If you plan
to start a startup, then whether you realize it or not, you're
planning to disprove the Pie Fallacy.What leads people astray here is the abstraction of
money.  Money is not wealth.  It's
just something we use to move wealth around.
So although there may be, in certain specific moments (like
your family, this month) a fixed amount of money available to
trade with other people for things you want,
there is not a fixed amount of wealth in the world.  
You can make more wealth.  Wealth has been getting created and
destroyed (but on balance, created) for all of human history.Suppose you own a beat-up old car. 
Instead of sitting on your butt next
summer, you could spend the time restoring your car to pristine condition.
In doing so you create wealth.  The world is-- and
you specifically are-- one pristine old car the richer.  And not
just in some metaphorical way.  If you sell your car,
you'll get more for it.In restoring your old car you have made yourself
richer.  You haven't made anyone else poorer.  So there is
obviously not a fixed pie.  And in fact, when you look at 
it this way, you wonder why anyone would think there was. 
[5]Kids know, without knowing they know, that they can create
wealth.  If you need to give someone a present and don't
have any money, you make one.  But kids are so bad at making
things that they consider home-made presents to be a distinct,
inferior, sort of thing to store-bought ones-- a mere expression
of the proverbial thought that counts. 
And indeed, the lumpy ashtrays
we made for our parents did not have much of a resale market.CraftsmenThe people most likely to grasp that wealth can be
created are the ones who are good at making things, the craftsmen.
Their hand-made objects become store-bought ones. 
But with the rise of industrialization there are fewer and
fewer craftsmen.  One of the biggest remaining groups  is
computer programmers.A programmer can sit down in front of a computer and
create wealth.  A good piece of software is, in itself, 
a valuable thing.
There is no manufacturing to confuse the issue.  Those
characters you type 
are a complete, finished product.
If someone sat down and wrote a web
browser that didn't suck (a fine idea, by the way), the world
would be that much richer.
[5b]Everyone in a company works together to create
wealth, in the sense of making more things people want.
Many of the employees (e.g. the people in the mailroom or
the personnel department) work at one remove from the 
actual making of stuff.  Not the programmers.  They
literally think the product, one line at a time.
And so it's clearer to programmers that wealth is something
that's made, rather than being distributed, like slices of a
pie, by some imaginary Daddy.It's also obvious to programmers that there are huge variations
in the rate at which wealth is created.  At Viaweb we had one
programmer who was a sort of monster of productivity.  
I remember watching what he did one long day and estimating that
he had added several hundred thousand dollars
to the market value of the company. 
A great programmer, on a roll, could 
create a million dollars worth of wealth in a couple weeks.
A mediocre programmer over the same period will generate zero or
even negative wealth (e.g. by introducing bugs).This is
why so many of the best programmers are libertarians.
In our world, you sink or swim, and there are no excuses.
When those far removed from the creation of wealth-- undergraduates,
reporters, politicians-- hear
that the richest 5% of the people have 
half the total wealth, they tend to think injustice!
An experienced programmer would be more likely to think
is that all?  The top 5% of programmers
probably write 99% of the good software.Wealth can be created without being sold.  Scientists, till
recently at least, effectively donated the wealth they 
created.  We are all richer for knowing about penicillin,
because we're less likely to die from infections.  Wealth
is whatever people want, and not dying is certainly something
we want.  Hackers often donate their work by 
writing open source software that anyone can use for free.
I am much the richer for the operating system
FreeBSD, which I'm running on the computer I'm using now,
and so is Yahoo, which runs it on all their servers.What a Job IsIn industrialized countries, people belong to one institution or
another at least until their twenties.  After all those years you get
used to the idea of belonging to a group of people who all get up
in the morning, go to some set of buildings, and do things that they
do not, ordinarily, enjoy doing.  Belonging to such a group becomes
part of your identity: name, age, role, institution.
If you have to introduce yourself, or
someone else describes you, it will be as something like, John
Smith, age 10, a student at such and such elementary school, or
John Smith, age 20, a student at such and such college.When John Smith finishes school he is expected to get a job.  And
what getting a job seems to mean is joining another institution.
Superficially it's a lot like college.  You pick the companies you
want to work for and apply to join them.  If one likes you, you
become a member of this new group.  You get up in the morning and
go to a new set of buildings, and do things that you do not, ordinarily,
enjoy doing.  There are a few differences: life is not as much fun,
and you get paid, instead of paying, as you did in college.  But
the similarities feel greater than the differences.  John Smith is
now John Smith, 22, a software developer at such and such corporation.In fact John Smith's
life has changed more than he realizes.  Socially, a company
looks much like college, but the deeper you go into the
underlying reality, the more different it gets.What a company does, and has to do if it wants to continue to
exist, is earn money.  And the way most companies make money
is by creating wealth.  Companies can be so specialized that this
similarity is concealed, but it is not only manufacturing 
companies that create wealth.  A big component of wealth is
location. 
Remember that magic machine that could
make you cars and cook you dinner and so on?  It would not be
so useful if it delivered your dinner to a random location
in central Asia.  
If wealth means what people want, companies that move
things also create wealth.  Ditto for
many other kinds of companies that don't make anything
physical.  Nearly all companies exist to do something people
want.And that's what you do, as well, when you go to work for a company.
But here there is another layer that tends to obscure the underlying
reality.  In a company, the work you do is averaged together with
a lot of other people's.  
You may not even be aware you're doing something people
want.  Your contribution may be indirect.  But the company as a
whole must be giving people something they want, or they won't make
any money.  And if they are paying you x dollars a year, then on
average you must be contributing at least x dollars a year worth
of work, or the company will be spending more than it makes,
and will go out of business.Someone graduating from college thinks, and is told, that he needs
to get a job, as if the important thing were becoming a member of 
an institution.  A more direct way to put it would be: you need to
start doing something people want.  You don't
need to
join a company to do that.  All a company is is a group of people
working together to do something people want.  It's doing something people
want that matters, not joining the group. 
[6]For most people the   
best plan probably is to go to work for some existing
company.  But it is a good idea to understand what's happening   
when you do this.  A job means doing something people want,
averaged together with everyone else in that company.Working HarderThat averaging gets to be a problem.
I think the single biggest problem afflicting large companies is the   
difficulty of assigning a value to each person's work. 
For the most part they punt.  In a
big company you get paid a fairly predictable salary for working 
fairly hard.  You're expected not to be obviously incompetent or
lazy, but you're not expected to devote your whole life to your
work.It turns out, though, that there are economies of scale in how much of your
life you devote to your work.  In the right kind of business,  
someone who really devoted himself to work could generate ten or
even a hundred times as much wealth as an average
employee.  A programmer, for example, instead of chugging along
maintaining and updating an existing piece of software, could write
a whole new piece of software, and with it create a new source of
revenue.Companies are not set up to reward people who want to do this. 
You can't go to your boss and say, I'd like to start working ten
times as hard, so will you please pay me ten times as much? For
one thing, the official fiction is that you are already working as
hard as you can.  But a more serious problem is that the company
has no way of measuring the value of your work.Salesmen are an exception.  It's easy 
to measure how much revenue they generate, and they're
usually paid a percentage of it.  If a salesman wants to work harder,
he can just start doing it, and he will automatically
get paid proportionally more.There is one other job besides sales where big companies can
hire first-rate people: in the top management jobs. 
And for the same reason: their performance can
be measured.  The top managers are
held responsible for the performance of the entire company.
Because an ordinary employee's performance can't usually
be measured, he is not expected to do
more than put in a solid effort.  Whereas top management, like
salespeople, have to actually come up with the numbers.
The CEO of a company that tanks cannot plead that he put in  
a solid effort.  If the company does badly, he's done badly.A company that could pay all its employees so straightforwardly   
would be enormously successful.  Many employees would work harder
if they could get paid for it.  More importantly,
such a company would attract people who wanted to work
especially hard. 
It would crush its competitors.Unfortunately, companies can't pay everyone like salesmen.  Salesmen
work alone.  Most employees' work is tangled together.  Suppose
a company makes some kind of consumer gadget.  The 
engineers build a reliable gadget with all kinds of new features;
the industrial designers design a beautiful case for it; and then
the marketing people convince everyone that
it's something they've got to have.  How do you know how much of the
gadget's sales are due to each group's efforts?  Or, for that
matter, how much is due to the creators of past gadgets that gave
the company a reputation for quality?  There's no way to  
untangle all their contributions.  Even if you could read the minds
of the consumers, you'd find these factors were all blurred together.If you want to go faster, it's a problem to have your work
tangled together with a large number of other people's.  In a  
large group, your performance is not separately measurable-- and 
the rest of the group slows you down.Measurement and LeverageTo get rich you need to get yourself in a situation with two
things, measurement and leverage.  You need to be in a
position where your performance can be measured, or there is
no way to get paid more by doing more.  And you have to
have leverage, in the sense that the decisions you make have   
a big effect.Measurement alone is not enough.  An example of a job with
measurement but not leverage is doing piecework in a
sweatshop.  Your performance is measured and you get paid  
accordingly, but you have no scope for decisions.  The only
decision you get to make is how fast you work, and that
can probably only increase your earnings by a factor
of two or three.An example of a job with both measurement and leverage would
be lead actor in a movie.  Your performance can be measured in the
gross of the movie.  And you have leverage in the sense that your
performance can make or break it.CEOs also have both measurement and leverage.  They're measured,
in that the performance of the company is their performance.
And they have leverage in that their decisions
set the whole company moving in one direction or another.I think everyone who gets rich by their own efforts will be
found to be in a situation with measurement and leverage.    
Everyone I can think of does: CEOs, movie stars, 
hedge fund managers, professional athletes.  A good hint to the
presence of leverage is the possibility of failure.
Upside must be balanced by downside, so if there is 
big potential for gain there must also be a terrifying
possibility of loss.  CEOs, stars, fund managers, and athletes
all live with the sword hanging over their heads;
the moment they start to suck, they're out.  If you're in
a job that feels safe, you are not going to get rich,
because if there is no danger there is almost certainly no leverage.But you don't have to become a CEO or a movie star to
be in a situation with measurement and leverage.  All you        
need to do is be part of a small group working on a
hard problem.Smallness = MeasurementIf you can't measure the value of the work done by individual  
employees, you can get close.  You can measure the value
of the work done by small groups.One level at which you can accurately measure the revenue
generated by employees is at the level of the whole company.   
When the company is small, you are thereby fairly close to 
measuring the contributions of individual employees.  A viable
startup might only have ten employees, which puts you within a
factor of ten of measuring individual effort.Starting or joining a startup is thus as close as most
people can get to saying to one's boss, I want to work ten times
as hard, so please pay me ten times as much.  There are two
differences: you're not saying it to your boss, but directly to the
customers (for whom your boss is only a proxy after all), and
you're not doing it individually, but along with a small group
of other ambitious people.It will, ordinarily, be a group.  Except in a few unusual kinds
of work, like acting or writing books, you can't be a company 
of one person.  
And the people you work with had better be good, because it's their work that
yours is going to be averaged with.A big company is like a giant galley driven by a thousand rowers.
Two things keep the speed of the
galley down.  One is that individual rowers don't see any
result from working harder. 
The other is that, in a group of a
thousand people, the average rower is likely  to be
pretty average.If you took ten people at random out of the big galley and
put them in a boat by themselves, they could probably go  
faster.  They would have both carrot and stick to motivate   
them.  An energetic rower would be encouraged by the thought
that he could have a visible effect on the speed of
the boat.  And if someone was lazy, the others would be more likely
to notice and complain.But the real advantage of the ten-man boat shows when 
you take the ten best rowers out of the big galley
and put them in a boat together.  They will have all
the extra motivation that comes from being in a small group.
But more importantly, by selecting that small a group
you can get the best rowers.  Each one will be in
the top 1%.  It's a much better deal for them to average  
their work together with a small group of their peers than to    
average it with everyone.That's the real point of startups.  Ideally, you are getting
together with a group of other people who also want to work
a lot harder, and get paid a lot more, than they would in
a big company.  And because startups tend to get founded 
by self-selecting groups of ambitious people who already 
know one another (at least by reputation), the level of 
measurement is more precise than you get from smallness alone.
A startup is not merely ten people, but ten people like you.Steve Jobs once said that the success or failure of a startup
depends on the first ten employees.  I agree. If 
anything, it's more like the first five.
Being small is not, in itself, what makes startups kick butt,   
but rather that small groups can be select.
You don't want small in the sense of a
village, but small in the sense of an all-star team.The larger a group, the closer its average member will be to the average
for the population as a whole.   So all other things being
equal, a very able person in a big company is probably
getting a bad deal, because his performance is dragged down by
the overall lower performance of the others.  Of course,
all other things often are not equal: the able person may 
not care about money, or may prefer the stability of a large
company.  But a very able person who does care about money
will ordinarily do better to go off and work with a small
group of peers.Technology = LeverageStartups offer anyone a way to be in a situation with
measurement and leverage.
They allow measurement because they're small,
and they offer leverage because they
make money by inventing new technology.What is technology?  It's technique. It's the way  
we all do things.  And when
you discover a new way to do things, its value is multiplied
by all the people who use it.  It is the proverbial fishing
rod, rather than the fish.  That's the difference between a
startup and a restaurant or a barber shop.  You fry eggs or cut 
hair one customer at a time.  Whereas if 
you solve a technical problem that a lot of people care about,
you help everyone who uses your solution.  
That's leverage.If you look at history, it seems that most people
who got rich by creating wealth did it by developing
new technology.  You just can't fry eggs or cut hair fast enough.
What made the Florentines rich in 1200 
was the discovery of new techniques for making the high-tech 
product of the time, fine woven cloth.  What made the
Dutch rich in 1600 was the discovery of shipbuilding and
navigation techniques that enabled them to dominate the seas
of the Far East.Fortunately there is a natural fit between smallness and
solving hard problems.  The leading edge of technology moves
fast.  Technology that's valuable today could be worthless
in a couple years.  Small companies are more at home in this
world, because they don't have layers of bureaucracy to
slow them down.
Also, technical advances tend to come from unorthodox approaches,
and small companies are less constrained by convention.Big companies can develop technology.  They just can't do it
quickly.  Their size makes them slow and prevents
them from rewarding employees for the extraordinary
effort required.  So in practice big companies only get to develop 
technology in fields where large capital requirements prevent startups from
competing with them, like microprocessors, power plants, 
or passenger aircraft.  And even in those fields they depend heavily
on startups for components and ideas.It's obvious that biotech or software startups exist to solve
hard technical problems, but 
I think it will also be found to be true 
in businesses that don't seem to be about technology.  McDonald's,
for example, grew big by designing a system, the McDonald's 
franchise, that could then be reproduced at will all over the 
face of the earth.  A McDonald's franchise is controlled by rules
so precise that it is practically
a piece of software.  Write once, run everywhere.
Ditto for Wal-Mart.  Sam Walton got rich not by being a 
retailer, but by designing a new kind of store.Use difficulty as a guide not just in selecting the overall
aim of your company, but also at decision points along the way.
At Viaweb one of our rules of thumb was run upstairs.
Suppose you are a little, nimble guy being chased by a big,
fat, bully.  You open a door and find yourself in a    
staircase.  Do you go up or down?  I say up.  The
bully can probably run downstairs as fast as you can.
Going upstairs his bulk will be more of a disadvantage.
Running upstairs is hard for you but even harder for him.What this meant in practice was that we deliberately sought      
hard problems.  If there were two features we could add to our
software, both equally valuable in proportion to their difficulty,
we'd always take the harder one.  Not just because it was 
more valuable, but because it was harder.
We delighted in forcing bigger, slower competitors
to follow us over difficult ground.
Like guerillas, startups prefer the difficult terrain of the
mountains, where the troops of the central government
can't follow.  I can remember times when we were just
exhausted after wrestling all day with some horrible technical
problem.  And I'd be delighted, because something that was 
hard for us would be impossible for our competitors.This is not just a good way to run a startup.  It's what
a startup is.
Venture capitalists know about this and have a phrase for it:
barriers to entry.  If you go to a VC with a new 
idea and ask him to invest in it, one of the first things
he'll ask is, how hard would this be for someone else to  
develop?  That is, how much difficult ground
have you put between yourself and potential pursuers? 
[7]
And you had better have a convincing explanation of why 
your technology would be hard to duplicate.  Otherwise as
soon as some big company becomes aware of it, they'll make
their own, and with their brand name, capital, and
distribution clout, they'll take away your market overnight.
You'd be like guerillas caught in the open field by regular
army forces.One way to put up barriers to entry is through patents. 
But patents may not provide much protection. 
Competitors commonly find ways to work around a patent.
And if they can't, they 
may simply violate it and invite you to sue them.
A big company is not afraid to be sued; it's an everyday thing
for them.  They'll make sure that suing them is expensive and
takes a long time.
Ever heard of Philo Farnsworth?  He invented
television.  The reason you've never
heard of him is that his company was not the one to make
money from it. 
[8]
The company that did was RCA, and
Farnsworth's reward for his efforts was a decade of
patent litigation.Here, as so often, the best defense is a good offense.  If
you can develop technology that's simply too hard for
competitors to duplicate, you don't need to rely on other
defenses.  Start by picking a hard problem, and
then at every decision point, take the harder choice. 
[9]The Catch(es)If it were simply a matter of working harder than 
an ordinary employee and getting paid proportionately, it would
obviously be a good deal to start a startup.  Up to a point it
would be more fun. I don't think many people 
like the slow pace of big companies, the interminable meetings,
the water-cooler conversations, the clueless middle managers,
and so on.Unfortunately there are a couple catches.  One is that you
can't choose the point on the curve that you want to inhabit.
You can't decide, for example, that you'd like to work just
two or three times as hard, and get paid that much more.  When
you're running a startup, your competitors decide how
hard you work.  And they pretty much all make the same decision:
as hard as you possibly can.The other catch is that the payoff is only on average proportionate
to your productivity.  There is, as I said before, a large
random multiplier in the success of any company.  So in
practice the deal is not that you're 30 times as productive and get 
paid 30 times as much.  It is that you're 30 times as productive,
and get paid between zero and a thousand times as much.
If the mean is 30x, the median is probably zero.
Most startups tank, and not just the dogfood 
portals we all heard about during
the Internet Bubble.  It's common for a startup
to be developing a genuinely good product, take slightly
too long to do it, run out of money, and have to shut down.A startup is like a mosquito.  A bear can absorb a hit and a crab
is armored against one, but a mosquito is designed for one thing:
to score.  No energy is wasted on defense.  The defense of mosquitos, 
as a species, is that there are a lot of them, but this is little 
consolation to the individual mosquito.Startups, like mosquitos, tend to be an all-or-nothing proposition.
And you don't generally know which of the two you're going to
get till the last minute. 
Viaweb came close to tanking several times. Our trajectory
was like a sine wave.  Fortunately we got bought at
the top of the cycle, but it was damned close.   While we were
visiting Yahoo in California to talk about selling the company
to them, we had to borrow a conference room to reassure
an investor who was about to back out of a new round of funding 
that we needed to stay alive.The all-or-nothing aspect of startups was not something we wanted.
Viaweb's hackers were all extremely risk-averse.
If there had been some way just to work super hard and get
paid for it, without having a lottery mixed in, we would have
been delighted.  We would have much preferred a 100% chance of
$1 million to a 20% chance of $10 million, even though 
theoretically the second is worth twice as much.   Unfortunately,
there is not currently any space in the business world where
you can get the first deal.The closest you can get is by
selling your startup in the early stages, giving up upside  
(and risk) for a smaller but guaranteed payoff.  We had a 
chance to do this, and stupidly, as we then thought, let it slip by.
After that we became comically eager to sell.
For the next year or so,
if anyone expressed the slightest curiosity about Viaweb
we would try to sell them the company.  But there were no takers,
so we had to keep going.It would have been a bargain to 
buy us at an early stage, but companies doing acquisitions are not
looking for bargains.  A company big enough to acquire 
startups will be big enough to be fairly conservative, and 
within the company the people in charge of acquisitions will
be among the more conservative, because they are likely to be
business school types who joined the company late.  
They would rather overpay for a safe choice.  So
it is easier to sell an established startup, even at a large
premium, than an early-stage one.Get UsersI think it's a good idea to get bought, if you can.  Running a
business is different from growing one.
It is just as well to let a big company take over once you reach 
cruising altitude.  It's
also financially wiser, because selling allows you to diversify.
What would you think of a financial advisor who put all his
client's assets into one volatile stock?How do you get bought?  Mostly by doing the same things 
you'd do if you didn't intend to sell the company.  Being 
profitable, for example.   But getting bought is also an art
in its own right, and one that we spent a lot of time trying
to master.Potential buyers will
always delay if they can.  The hard part about getting
bought is getting them to act.  For most people, the most powerful motivator
is not the hope of gain, but the fear of loss.  For potential
acquirers, the most powerful motivator is the prospect that 
one of their competitors will buy you.  This, as we found, 
causes CEOs to take red-eyes.  
The second biggest is the worry that, if they don't buy you 
now, you'll continue to grow rapidly and will cost more to
acquire later, or even become a competitor.In both cases, what it all comes down to is users.  
You'd think that a company about to buy you would do a lot of
research and decide for themselves how valuable your technology
was.  Not at all.  What they go by is the number of users you
have.In effect, acquirers assume the customers know who has the
best technology.  And this is not as stupid as it sounds.  Users 
are the only real proof that you've created wealth.  Wealth is 
what people want, and if people aren't using your software,
maybe it's not just because you're bad at marketing.  Maybe it's
because you haven't made what they want.Venture capitalists have a list of danger signs to watch out for.
Near the top is the company run by techno-weenies who are 
obsessed with solving interesting technical problems, instead
of making users happy.  In a startup, you're not just trying to
solve problems.  You're trying to solve problems that 
users care about.So I think you should make users the test, just as 
acquirers do.  Treat a startup as an optimization problem 
in which performance is measured by number of users.  As anyone
who has tried to optimize software knows, the key is measurement.
When you try to guess where your program is slow, and what would
make it faster, you almost always guess wrong.Number of users may not be the perfect test, but it will 
be very close.  It's what acquirers care about.  It's what 
revenues depend on.  
It's what makes competitors unhappy.
It's what impresses reporters, and potential
new users.  Certainly it's a better test than your a priori
notions of what problems are important to solve, no matter how
technically adept you are.Among other things, treating a startup as an optimization
problem will help you avoid another
pitfall that VCs worry about, and rightly-- taking a long time
to develop a product.  Now we can recognize this as something
hackers already know to avoid: premature optimization.  Get a version 
1.0 out there as soon as you can.  Until you have some users to
measure, you're optimizing based on guesses.The ball you need to keep your eye on here is the underlying
principle that wealth is what people want.  If you plan to get 
rich by creating wealth, you have to know what people want.  
So few businesses really pay attention to making customers happy.
How often do you walk into a store, or call a company on the
phone, with a feeling of dread in the back of your mind?
When you hear "your call is important to us, please stay on
the line," do you think, oh good, now everything will be all right?A restaurant can afford to serve the occasional burnt dinner.
But in technology, you cook one thing and that's what everyone
eats.  So any difference between what people want and what
you deliver is multiplied.  
You please or annoy
customers wholesale.  The closer you can get to what they want,
the more wealth you generate.Wealth and PowerMaking wealth is not the only way to get rich.  For most of
human history it has not even been the most common.  Until
a few centuries ago,
the main sources of wealth were mines, slaves and serfs,
land, and cattle,
and the only ways to acquire these rapidly were by inheritance,
marriage, conquest, or confiscation.  
Naturally wealth had a bad reputation.Two things changed.  The first was the rule of law.  For most of the world's
history, if you did somehow accumulate a fortune, the ruler or his 
henchmen 
would find a way to steal it.
But in medieval Europe something new happened.
A new class of merchants and manufacturers
began to collect in towns. 
[10]
Together they were able to withstand the local feudal
lord.  So 
for the first time in our history, the bullies stopped stealing the
nerds' lunch money.
This was naturally a great incentive,
and possibly indeed the main cause of the second big change,
industrialization.A great deal has been written about the causes of the Industrial 
Revolution.  But surely a necessary, if not sufficient, condition
was that people who made fortunes be able to enjoy them in peace.
[11]
One piece of evidence is what happened to countries
that tried to return to the old model, like the Soviet
Union, and to a lesser extent Britain under the labor
governments of the 1960s and early 1970s.  Take away the incentive
of wealth, and technical innovation grinds to a halt.Remember what a startup is, economically: 
a way of saying, I want to work faster.  Instead of accumulating
money slowly by being paid a regular wage for fifty years, I 
want to get it over with as soon as possible.  So governments
that forbid you to accumulate wealth are in effect decreeing
that you work slowly.  They're willing to let you earn $3 million over
fifty years, but they're not willing to let you work so hard that
you can do it in two.  They are like
the corporate boss that you can't go to and say, I want to work
ten times as hard, so please pay me ten times a much.
Except this is not a boss you can escape by starting your own
company.The problem with working slowly is not just that technical
innovation happens slowly.  It's that it tends not to happen at all.
It's only when you're deliberately looking for hard problems,
as a way to use speed to the greatest advantage, that you take
on this kind of project.  Developing new technology is a 
pain in the ass. It is, as Edison said, one percent 
inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration.  
Without the incentive of wealth, no one wants to do it.
Engineers will work on sexy projects like fighter planes and moon
rockets for ordinary salaries, but more mundane technologies
like light bulbs or semiconductors have to be developed by entrepreneurs.Startups
are not just something that happened in Silicon Valley in 
the last couple decades.  Since it became possible to
get rich by creating wealth, everyone who has done it has
used essentially the same recipe: measurement and leverage,
where measurement comes from working with a small
group, and leverage from developing new techniques.
The recipe was the same in Florence in 1200 as it is 
in Santa Clara today.Understanding this may help to answer an important question:
why Europe grew so powerful.
Was it something about the geography of 
Europe?  Was it that Europeans are somehow racially superior?
Was it their religion?  The answer (or at least
the proximate cause) may be that the
Europeans 
rode on the crest of a powerful new idea: allowing those who
made a lot of money to keep it.Once you're allowed to do that, 
people who want to get rich can do it by generating
wealth instead of stealing it.
The resulting technological growth translates not only 
into wealth but into military power.  The theory that led to
the stealth plane was developed by a Soviet mathematician.
But because the Soviet Union didn't have a computer industry,
it remained for them a theory;
they didn't have hardware capable of executing the calculations
fast enough to design an actual airplane.In that respect the Cold War teaches the same lesson as
World War II and, for that matter, most wars in recent history.
Don't let a ruling
class of warriors and politicians squash the entrepreneurs.
The same recipe that makes individuals rich
makes countries powerful.  Let the nerds keep their lunch
money, and you rule the world.Notes[1]
One valuable thing you tend to get only in startups is
uninterruptability.  Different kinds of
work have different time quanta.  Someone proofreading a
manuscript
could probably be interrupted every fifteen minutes
with little loss of productivity.  But the time quantum for
hacking is very long: it might take an hour just to load
a problem into your head.  So the
cost of having someone from personnel
call you about a form you forgot to fill out can be huge.This is why hackers give you such a baleful stare as they
turn from their screen to answer your question.  Inside
their heads a giant house of cards is tottering.The mere possibility of being interrupted deters hackers
from starting hard projects.  This is why they
tend to work late at night, and why it's next to impossible
to write great software in a cubicle (except late at night).One great advantage of startups is that they don't yet have
any of the people who interrupt you.  There is no personnel
department, and thus no form nor anyone to call you about it.[2]
Faced with the idea that people working for startups might be
20 or 30 times as productive as those working for large companies,
executives at large companies will naturally wonder, how could
I get the people working for me to do that?  The answer is
simple: pay them to.Internally most companies are run like Communist states.
If you believe in free markets, why not turn your company into one?Hypothesis: A company will be maximally profitable when each
employee is paid in proportion to the wealth they generate.[3]
Until recently even governments sometimes didn't grasp the
distinction between money and wealth.  Adam
Smith (Wealth of Nations, v:i) mentions several
that tried to preserve their
"wealth" by forbidding the export of gold or silver.
But having more of the medium of exchange would not make
a country richer; if you have more money chasing the same
amount of material wealth, the only result is higher prices.[4]
There are many senses of the word "wealth," not all of
them material.  I'm not trying to make a deep philosophical
point here about which
is the true kind.  I'm writing about one specific,
rather technical sense of the word "wealth."  What
people will give you money for.
This is an interesting sort of wealth to study, because
it is the kind that prevents you from starving.
And what people will give you money for depends on them,
not you.When you're starting a business,
it's easy to slide into thinking that customers
want what you do.  During the Internet Bubble I talked
to a woman who, because she liked the outdoors, was
starting an "outdoor portal." You know what
kind of business you should start if you like
the outdoors?  One to recover data from crashed hard disks.What's the connection?  None at all.  Which is precisely my point.
If you want
to create wealth (in the narrow technical sense of not
starving) then you should be especially skeptical about any
plan that centers on things you like doing.
That is where your idea of what's valuable is least
likely to coincide with other people's.[5]
In the average car restoration you probably do make everyone
else microscopically poorer, by doing a small amount of damage to
the environment.  While environmental costs should be taken
into account, they don't
make wealth a zero-sum game.  For example, if you repair
a machine that's broken because a part has come unscrewed,
you create wealth with no environmental cost.[5b]
This essay was written before Firefox.[6]
Many people feel confused and depressed in
their early twenties.  Life seemed so much more fun in college.
Well, of course it was.  Don't be fooled by the surface similarities.
You've gone from guest to servant.
It's possible to have fun in this new world. 
Among other things, you now get to go behind the doors that say
"authorized personnel only."
But the change is a shock at first, and all the worse
if you're not consciously aware of it.[7]
When VCs asked us how long it would take another startup
to duplicate our software, we used to reply that they probably
wouldn't be able to at all. I think this made us seem naive,
or liars.[8]
Few technologies have one clear inventor.  So as
a rule, if you know the "inventor" of something
(the telephone, the assembly line, the airplane, 
the light bulb, the transistor) it is because their
company made money from it, and the company's PR people worked
hard to spread the story.  If you don't know who invented
something (the automobile, the television, the computer,
the jet engine, the laser), it's because other companies
made all the money.[9]
This is a good plan for life in general.
If you have two choices, choose the harder.
If you're trying to decide whether to go out running or
sit home and watch TV, go running.
Probably the reason this trick works so well is that
when you have two choices and one is harder, the
only reason you're even considering the other is laziness.
You know in the back of your mind what's the right thing
to do, and this trick merely forces you to acknowledge it.[10]
It is probably no accident that the middle class
first appeared in northern Italy and the low countries,
where there were no strong central governments.   These two
regions were the richest of their time and became the twin
centers from which Renaissance civilization radiated.
If they no longer play that role, it is because
other places, like the United States, have been truer to the
principles they discovered.[11]
It may indeed be a sufficient condition.  But if so, why didn't
the Industrial Revolution happen earlier?  Two possible (and
not incompatible) answers: (a) It did.  
The Industrial Revolution was one in a series.
(b) Because in medieval towns, monopolies
and guild regulations initially slowed the development of new means
of production.

Comment on this essay.Russian TranslationArabic TranslationSpanish Translation
You'll find this essay and 14 others in
Hackers & Painters.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2004To the popular press, "hacker" means someone who breaks
into computers.  Among programmers it means a good programmer.
But the two meanings are connected.  To programmers,
"hacker" connotes mastery in the most literal sense: someone
who can make a computer do what he wants—whether the computer
wants to or not.To add to the confusion, the noun "hack" also has two senses.  It can
be either a compliment or an insult.  It's called a hack when
you do something in an ugly way.  But when you do something
so clever that you somehow beat the system, that's also
called a hack.  The word is used more often in the former than
the latter sense, probably because ugly solutions are more
common than brilliant ones.Believe it or not, the two senses of "hack" are also
connected.  Ugly and imaginative solutions have something in
common: they both break the rules.  And there is a gradual
continuum between rule breaking that's merely ugly (using
duct tape to attach something to your bike) and rule breaking
that is brilliantly imaginative (discarding Euclidean space).Hacking predates computers.  When he
was working on the Manhattan Project, Richard Feynman used to
amuse himself by breaking into safes containing secret documents.
This tradition continues today.
When we were in grad school, a hacker friend of mine who spent too much
time around MIT had
his own lock picking kit.
(He now runs a hedge fund, a not unrelated enterprise.)It is sometimes hard to explain to authorities why one would
want to do such things.
Another friend of mine once got in trouble with the government for
breaking into computers.  This had only recently been declared
a crime, and the FBI found that their usual investigative
technique didn't work.  Police investigation apparently begins with
a motive.  The usual motives are few: drugs, money, sex,
revenge.  Intellectual curiosity was not one of the motives on
the FBI's list.  Indeed, the whole concept seemed foreign to
them.Those in authority tend to be annoyed by hackers'
general attitude of disobedience.  But that disobedience is
a byproduct of the qualities that make them good programmers.
They may laugh at the CEO when he talks in generic corporate
newspeech, but they also laugh at someone who tells them
a certain problem can't be solved.
Suppress one, and you suppress the other.This attitude is sometimes affected.  Sometimes young programmers
notice the eccentricities of eminent hackers and decide to
adopt some of their own in order to seem smarter.
The fake version is not merely
annoying; the prickly attitude of these posers
can actually slow the process of innovation.But even factoring in their annoying eccentricities,
the disobedient attitude of hackers is a net win.  I wish its
advantages were better understood.For example, I suspect people in Hollywood are
simply mystified by
hackers' attitudes toward copyrights.  They are a perennial
topic of heated discussion on Slashdot.
But why should people who program computers
be so concerned about copyrights, of all things?Partly because some companies use mechanisms to prevent
copying.  Show any hacker a lock and his first thought is
how to pick it.  But there is a deeper reason that
hackers are alarmed by measures like copyrights and patents.
They see increasingly aggressive measures to protect
"intellectual property"
as a threat to the intellectual
freedom they need to do their job.
And they are right.It is by poking about inside current technology that
hackers get ideas for the next generation.  No thanks,
intellectual homeowners may say, we don't need any
outside help.  But they're wrong.
The next generation of computer technology has
often—perhaps more often than not—been developed by outsiders.In 1977 there was no doubt some group within IBM developing
what they expected to be
the next generation of business computer.  They were mistaken.
The next generation of business computer was
being developed on entirely different lines by two long-haired
guys called Steve in a garage in Los Altos.  At about the
same time, the powers that be
were cooperating to develop the
official next generation operating system, Multics.
But two guys who thought Multics excessively complex went off
and wrote their own.  They gave it a name that
was a joking reference to Multics: Unix.The latest intellectual property laws impose
unprecedented restrictions on the sort of poking around that
leads to new ideas. In the past, a competitor might use patents
to prevent you from selling a copy of something they
made, but they couldn't prevent you from
taking one apart to see how it worked.   The latest
laws make this a crime.  How are we
to develop new technology if we can't study current
technology to figure out how to improve it?Ironically, hackers have brought this on themselves.
Computers are responsible for the problem.  The control systems
inside machines used to be physical: gears and levers and cams.
Increasingly, the brains (and thus the value) of products is
in software. And by this I mean software in the general sense:
i.e. data.  A song on an LP is physically stamped into the
plastic.  A song on an iPod's disk is merely stored on it.Data is by definition easy to copy.  And the Internet
makes copies easy to distribute.  So it is no wonder
companies are afraid.  But, as so often happens, fear has
clouded their judgement.  The government has responded
with draconian laws to protect intellectual property.
They probably mean well. But
they may not realize that such laws will do more harm
than good.Why are programmers so violently opposed to these laws?
If I were a legislator, I'd be interested in this
mystery—for the same reason that, if I were a farmer and suddenly
heard a lot of squawking coming from my hen house one night,
I'd want to go out and investigate.  Hackers are not stupid,
and unanimity is very rare in this world.
So if they're all squawking,   
perhaps there is something amiss.Could it be that such laws, though intended to protect America,
will actually harm it?  Think about it.  There is something
very American about Feynman breaking into safes during
the Manhattan Project.  It's hard to imagine the authorities
having a sense of humor about such things over
in Germany at that time.  Maybe it's not a coincidence.Hackers are unruly.  That is the essence of hacking.  And it
is also the essence of Americanness.  It is no accident
that Silicon Valley
is in America, and not France, or Germany,
or England, or Japan. In those countries, people color inside
the lines.I lived for a while in Florence.  But after I'd been there
a few months I realized that what I'd been unconsciously hoping
to find there was back in the place I'd just left.
The reason Florence is famous is that in 1450, it was New York.
In 1450 it was filled with the kind of turbulent and ambitious
people you find now in America.  (So I went back to America.)It is greatly to America's advantage that it is
a congenial atmosphere for the right sort of unruliness—that
it is a home not just for the smart, but for smart-alecks.
And hackers are invariably smart-alecks.  If we had a national
holiday, it would be April 1st.  It says a great deal about
our work that we use the same word for a brilliant or a
horribly cheesy solution.   When we cook one up we're not
always 100% sure which kind it is.  But as long as it has
the right sort of wrongness, that's a promising sign.
It's odd that people
think of programming as precise and methodical.  Computers
are precise and methodical.  Hacking is something you do
with a gleeful laugh.In our world some of the most characteristic solutions
are not far removed from practical
jokes.  IBM was no doubt rather surprised by the consequences
of the licensing deal for DOS, just as the hypothetical
"adversary" must be when Michael Rabin solves a problem by
redefining it as one that's easier to solve.Smart-alecks have to develop a keen sense of how much they
can get away with.  And lately hackers 
have sensed a change
in the atmosphere.
Lately hackerliness seems rather frowned upon.To hackers the recent contraction in civil liberties seems
especially ominous.  That must also mystify outsiders. 
Why should we care especially about civil
liberties?  Why programmers, more than
dentists or salesmen or landscapers?Let me put the case in terms a government official would appreciate.
Civil liberties are not just an ornament, or a quaint
American tradition.  Civil liberties make countries rich.
If you made a graph of
GNP per capita vs. civil liberties, you'd notice a definite
trend.  Could civil liberties really be a cause, rather
than just an effect?  I think so.  I think a society in which
people can do and say what they want will also tend to
be one in which the most efficient solutions win, rather than
those sponsored by the most influential people.
Authoritarian countries become corrupt;
corrupt countries become poor; and poor countries are weak. 
It seems to me there is
a Laffer curve for government power, just as for
tax revenues.  At least, it seems likely enough that it
would be stupid to try the experiment and find out.  Unlike
high tax rates, you can't repeal totalitarianism if it
turns out to be a mistake.This is why hackers worry.  The government spying on people doesn't
literally make programmers write worse code.  It just leads
eventually to a world in which bad ideas win.  And because
this is so important to hackers, they're especially sensitive
to it.  They can sense totalitarianism approaching from a
distance, as animals can sense an approaching  
thunderstorm.It would be ironic if, as hackers fear, recent measures
intended to protect national security and intellectual property
turned out to be a missile aimed right at what makes   
America successful.  But it would not be the first time that
measures taken in an atmosphere of panic had
the opposite of the intended effect.There is such a thing as Americanness.
There's nothing like living abroad to teach you that.   
And if you want to know whether something will nurture or squash
this quality, it would be hard to find a better focus
group than hackers, because they come closest of any group
I know to embodying it.  Closer, probably,  than
the men running our government,
who for all their talk of patriotism
remind me more of Richelieu or Mazarin
than Thomas Jefferson or George Washington.When you read what the founding fathers had to say for
themselves, they sound more like hackers.
"The spirit of resistance to government,"
Jefferson wrote, "is so valuable on certain occasions, that I wish
it always to be kept alive."Imagine an American president saying that today.
Like the remarks of an outspoken old grandmother, the sayings of
the founding fathers have embarrassed generations of
their less confident successors.  They remind us where we come from.
They remind us that it is the people who break rules that are
the source of America's wealth and power.Those in a position to impose rules naturally want them to be
obeyed.  But be careful what you ask for. You might get it.Thanks to Ken Anderson, Trevor Blackwell, Daniel Giffin, 
Sarah Harlin,  Shiro Kawai, Jessica Livingston, Matz, 
Jackie McDonough, Robert Morris, Eric Raymond, Guido van Rossum,
David Weinberger, and
Steven Wolfram for reading drafts of this essay.
(The image shows Steves Jobs and Wozniak 
with a "blue box."
Photo by Margret Wozniak. Reproduced by permission of Steve
Wozniak.)Portuguese TranslationHebrew TranslationRomanian Translation
You'll find this essay and 14 others in
Hackers & Painters.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

August 2003
We may be able to improve the accuracy of Bayesian spam filters
by having them follow links to see what's
waiting at the other end.  Richard Jowsey of
death2spam now does
this in borderline cases, and reports that it works well.Why only do it in borderline cases?  And why only do it once?As I mentioned in Will Filters Kill Spam?,
following all the urls in
a spam would have an amusing side-effect.  If popular email clients
did this in order to filter spam, the spammer's servers
would take a serious pounding.  The more I think about this,
the better an idea it seems.  This isn't just amusing; it
would be hard to imagine a more perfectly targeted counterattack
on spammers.So I'd like to suggest an additional feature to those
working on spam filters: a "punish" mode which,
if turned on, would spider every url
in a suspected spam n times, where n could be set by the user. [1]As many people have noted, one of the problems with the
current email system is that it's too passive.  It does
whatever you tell it.  So far all the suggestions for fixing
the problem seem to involve new protocols.  This one  
wouldn't.If widely used, auto-retrieving spam filters would make
the email system rebound.  The huge volume of the
spam, which has so far worked in the spammer's favor,
would now work against him, like a branch snapping back in   
his face.   Auto-retrieving spam filters would drive the
spammer's 
costs up, 
and his sales down:  his bandwidth usage
would go through the roof, and his servers would grind to a
halt under the load, which would make them unavailable
to the people who would have responded to the spam.Pump out a million emails an hour, get a
million hits an hour on your servers.
We would want to ensure that this is only done to
suspected spams.  As a rule, any url sent to millions of
people is likely to be a spam url, so submitting every http
request in every email would work fine nearly all the time.
But there are a few cases where this isn't true: the urls
at the bottom of mails sent from free email services like
Yahoo Mail and Hotmail, for example.To protect such sites, and to prevent abuse, auto-retrieval
should be combined with blacklists of spamvertised sites.
Only sites on a blacklist would get crawled, and
sites would be blacklisted
only after being inspected by humans. The lifetime of a spam
must be several hours at least, so
it should be easy to update such a list in time to
interfere with a spam promoting a new site. [2]High-volume auto-retrieval would only be practical for users
on high-bandwidth
connections, but there are enough of those to cause spammers
serious trouble.   Indeed, this solution neatly
mirrors the problem.  The problem with spam is that in
order to reach a few gullible people the spammer sends 
mail to everyone.  The non-gullible recipients
are merely collateral damage.  But the non-gullible majority
won't stop getting spam until they can stop (or threaten to
stop) the gullible
from responding to it.  Auto-retrieving spam filters offer
them a way to do this.Would that kill spam?  Not quite.  The biggest spammers
could probably protect their servers against auto-retrieving 
filters.  However, the easiest and cheapest way for them
to do it would be to include working unsubscribe links in   
their mails.  And this would be a necessity for smaller fry,
and for "legitimate" sites that hired spammers to promote
them.  So if auto-retrieving filters became widespread,
they'd become auto-unsubscribing filters.In this scenario, spam would, like OS crashes, viruses, and
popups, become one of those plagues that only afflict people
who don't bother to use the right software.Notes[1] Auto-retrieving filters will have to follow redirects,
and should in some cases (e.g. a page that just says
"click here") follow more than one level of links.
Make sure too that
the http requests are indistinguishable from those of
popular Web browsers, including the order and referrer.If the response
doesn't come back within x amount of time, default to
some fairly high spam probability.Instead of making n constant, it might be a good idea to
make it a function of the number of spams that have been
seen mentioning the site.  This would add a further level of
protection against abuse and accidents.[2] The original version of this article used the term
"whitelist" instead of "blacklist".  Though they were
to work like blacklists, I preferred to call them whitelists
because it might make them less vulnerable to legal attack.
This just seems to have confused readers, though.There should probably be multiple blacklists.  A single point
of failure would be vulnerable both to attack and abuse.Thanks to Brian Burton, Bill Yerazunis, Dan Giffin,
Eric Raymond, and Richard Jowsey for reading drafts of this.FFB FAQJapanese TranslationA Perl FFBLycos DDoS@Home

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

May 2003(This essay is derived from a guest lecture at Harvard, which incorporated
an earlier talk at Northeastern.)When I finished grad school in computer science I went
to art school to study painting.  A lot of people seemed surprised
that someone interested in computers would also be interested in painting.
They seemed to think that
hacking and painting were very different kinds of work-- that
hacking was cold, precise, and methodical, and that
painting was the frenzied expression of some primal urge.Both of these images are wrong.  Hacking and painting have a
lot in common.  In fact, of all the different types of people I've
known, hackers and painters are among the most alike.What hackers and painters have in common is that they're
both makers.  Along with composers, architects, and writers,
what hackers and painters are trying to do is make good things.
They're not doing research per se, though if in the course of
trying to make good things they discover some new technique,
so much the better.I've never liked the term "computer science."  The main
reason I don't like it is that there's no such thing.
Computer science is a
grab bag of tenuously related areas thrown together
by an accident of history, like Yugoslavia.
At one end you have people who are really mathematicians,
but call what they're doing computer science so they can get DARPA grants.
In the middle you have people working on
something like the natural history of computers-- studying the
behavior of algorithms for routing data through
networks, for example.  And then at the other extreme you
have the hackers, who are trying to
write interesting software, and for whom computers are just a
medium of expression, as concrete is for architects or
paint for painters.  It's as if
mathematicians, physicists, and architects all had to be in
the same department.Sometimes what the hackers do is called "software engineering,"
but this term is just as misleading.
Good software designers are no more engineers than architects are.
The border between architecture and engineering is not sharply
defined, but it's there.
It falls between what and how: architects decide what to do,
and engineers figure out how to do it.What and how should not be kept too separate.  You're
asking for trouble if you try to decide what to do without
understanding how to do it.
But hacking can certainly be more than just deciding how to
implement some spec.  At its best, it's creating the spec-- though
it turns out the best way to do that is to implement it.Perhaps one day
"computer science" will, like Yugoslavia, get broken up into its
component parts.  That might be a good thing.  Especially if it
meant independence for my native land, hacking.Bundling all these different types of work together in one
department may be convenient administratively, but it's confusing
intellectually. That's the other reason I don't like the name
"computer science."  Arguably the people in the middle are doing
something like an experimental science.  But the people at either
end, the hackers and the mathematicians, are not actually doing science.The mathematicians don't seem bothered by this.  They happily
set to work proving theorems like the other mathematicians
over in the math department, and probably soon stop noticing
that the building they work in says ``computer science'' on the
outside.  But for the hackers this label is a problem.
If what they're doing is called science, it makes them feel they
ought to be acting scientific.
So instead of doing what they really want to do, which is   
to design beautiful software, hackers in universities and
research labs feel they ought to be writing research papers.In the best case, the papers are just a formality.  Hackers write
cool software, and then write a paper about it, and the paper
becomes a proxy for the achievement represented by the software.
But often this mismatch causes problems.  It's easy to
drift away from building beautiful things toward building ugly
things that make more suitable subjects for research papers.Unfortunately, beautiful things don't always make the
best subjects for papers.
Number one, research must be original-- and
as anyone who has written a PhD dissertation knows, the way to
be sure that you're exploring virgin territory is to stake
out a piece of ground that no one wants.  Number two, research must be
substantial-- and awkward systems yield meatier papers,
because you can write about the obstacles you have to overcome
in order to get things done.  Nothing yields meaty problems like
starting with the wrong assumptions.  Most of AI is an example
of this rule; if you assume that knowledge can be represented
as a list of predicate logic expressions whose arguments represent
abstract concepts, you'll have a lot of
papers to write about how to make this work.  As Ricky Ricardo
used to say, "Lucy, you got a lot of explaining to do."The way to create something beautiful is often to make subtle
tweaks to something that already exists, or to combine existing
ideas in a slightly new way.  This kind of work is hard to
convey in a research paper.So why do universities and research labs continue to judge
hackers by publications?
For the same reason that "scholastic aptitude"
gets measured by simple-minded standardized tests, or
the productivity of programmers gets measured in lines of code.
These tests
are easy to apply, and there is nothing so tempting as an easy test
that kind of works.Measuring what hackers are actually trying to do, designing
beautiful software, would be much more difficult.  You need
a good sense of design to judge 
good design.  And
there is no correlation, except possibly
a negative 
one, between people's ability to recognize good
design and their confidence that they can.The only external test is time.  Over time, beautiful
things tend to thrive, and ugly
things tend to get discarded.  Unfortunately, the amounts of time
involved can be longer than human lifetimes.  Samuel Johnson
said it took a hundred years for a writer's reputation to
converge.  You have to wait for the writer's
influential friends to die, and then for all their followers
to die.I think hackers just have to resign themselves to having a large random
component in their reputations.  In this they are no different
from other makers.  In fact, they're lucky by comparison.   
The influence of fashion is not nearly so great in hacking as it
is in painting.There are worse things than having people misunderstand your
work.  A worse danger is that you
will yourself misunderstand your work.  Related fields are
where you go looking for ideas.  If you find yourself in the computer science
department, there is a natural temptation to believe, for example,
that hacking is the applied version of what theoretical computer
science is the theory of.   All
the time I was in graduate school I had an uncomfortable feeling
in the back of my mind that I ought to know more theory,
and that it was very remiss of me to have forgotten all that
stuff within three weeks of the final exam.Now I realize I was
mistaken.  Hackers need to understand the theory of computation
about as much as painters need to understand paint chemistry.
You need to know how to calculate time and
space complexity and about
Turing completeness.  You might also want to remember at
least the concept of a state machine, in case you have to write
a parser or a regular expression library.  Painters in fact   
have to remember a good deal more about paint chemistry than 
that.I've found that the best sources of ideas
are not the other fields that have the word "computer" in
their names, but the other fields inhabited by makers.
Painting has been a much richer source of ideas than the
theory of computation.For example, I was taught in college
that one ought to figure out a program
completely on paper
before even going near a computer.  I found that I did not
program this way.  I found that I liked to program
sitting in front of a computer, not a piece of paper.  Worse
still, instead of patiently writing out a complete program
and assuring myself it was correct, I tended to just spew
out code that was hopelessly broken, and gradually beat it into
shape.  Debugging, I was taught, was a kind of final pass where
you caught typos and oversights.  The way I worked, it
seemed like programming consisted of debugging.For a long time I felt bad about this, just as I once
felt bad that I didn't hold my pencil the way they taught me
to in elementary school.
If I had only looked over at
the other makers, the painters or the architects, I would
have realized that there was a name for what I was doing:
sketching.  As far as I can tell, the
way they taught me to program in college was all wrong.
You should figure out programs as you're writing them,
just as writers and painters and architects do.Realizing this has real implications for software design.
It means that a programming language should, above all, be
malleable.  A programming language is for 
thinking of
programs, not for expressing programs you've already thought
of.  It should be a pencil, not a pen.  Static typing would
be a fine idea if people actually did write programs the way
they taught me to in college.  But that's not how any of the  
hackers I know write programs.  We need a language that lets us
scribble and smudge and smear, not a language where you have
to sit with a teacup of types balanced on your knee and make
polite conversation with a strict old aunt of a compiler.While we're on the subject of static typing, identifying with
the makers will save us from another problem that afflicts
the sciences: math envy.  Everyone in the sciences
secretly believes that mathematicians are smarter than they are.  
I think mathematicians also believe this.  At any rate,
the result is that scientists tend to make their
work look as mathematical as possible.  In a field like
physics this probably doesn't do much harm, but the further you
get from the natural sciences, the more of a problem it
becomes.A page of formulas just looks so impressive.
(Tip: for extra impressiveness, use Greek variables.)  And
so there is a great temptation to work on problems you
can treat formally, rather than problems that are, say,
important.If hackers identified with other makers, like writers and
painters, they wouldn't feel tempted to do      
this.  Writers and painters don't suffer from math envy.
They feel as if they're doing something completely unrelated.
So are hackers, I think.If universities and research labs keep hackers from doing
the kind of work they want to do,
perhaps the place for them is in companies.
Unfortunately, most companies won't let hackers do what they
want either.  Universities and research labs force hackers
to be scientists, and companies force them to be engineers.I only discovered this myself quite recently.  When Yahoo bought
Viaweb, they asked me what I wanted to do.  I had never
liked the business side very much, and said that I just wanted to
hack.  When I got to Yahoo, I found that what hacking meant
to them was implementing software, not designing it.  Programmers
were seen as technicians who translated the visions (if
that is the word) of product managers into code.This seems to be the
default plan in big companies.  They do it because
it decreases the standard deviation of the outcome.
Only a small percentage of hackers can actually design software,
and it's hard for the
people running a company to pick these out.  So instead of
entrusting the future of the software to
one brilliant hacker, most companies set things up so that it is
designed by committee, and the hackers merely
implement the design.If you want to make money at some point, remember this,
because this is one of the reasons startups win.  Big companies want
to decrease the standard deviation of design outcomes because they
want to avoid disasters.  But when you damp oscillations, you
lose the high points as well as the low.  This is not a problem for
big companies, because they don't win by making great
products.  Big companies win by sucking less than other big companies.So if you can figure out a way to get in a
design war with a company big enough that its software is   
designed by product managers, they'll never be able to keep up
with you.  These opportunities are not easy to find, though.
It's hard to engage a big company in a design war,
just as it's hard to engage an opponent inside a castle in hand
to hand combat.  It would be pretty easy to write a better
word processor than Microsoft Word, for example, but Microsoft,
within the castle of their operating system monopoly,
probably wouldn't even notice if you did.The place to fight design wars is in new markets, where no one
has yet managed to establish any fortifications.  That's where
you can win big by taking the bold approach to design, and
having the same people both design and implement the product.  
Microsoft themselves did this at the start.  So did Apple.
And Hewlett-Packard.  I suspect almost every successful startup
has.So one way to build great software is to start your own
startup.  There are two problems with this, though.  One is
that in a startup you have to do so much besides write software.
At Viaweb I considered myself lucky if I
got to hack a quarter of the time.  And the things I had to   
do the other three quarters of the time ranged from tedious
to terrifying.  I have a benchmark for this, because I
once had to leave a board meeting to have
some cavities filled.  I remember sitting back in the
dentist's chair, waiting for the drill, and feeling like
I was on vacation.The other problem with startups is that there is not much
overlap between the kind of software that makes money and the
kind that's interesting to write.  Programming languages
are interesting to write, and Microsoft's first product was
one, in fact, but no one will pay for programming languages
now.  If you want to make money, you tend to be forced to work
on problems that are too nasty for anyone to solve for free.All makers face this problem.  Prices are
determined by supply and demand, and there is just not as much
demand for things that are fun to work on as there is for
things that solve the mundane problems of individual customers.
Acting in off-Broadway plays just doesn't pay as well as
wearing a gorilla suit in someone's booth at a
trade show.  Writing novels doesn't pay as well as writing
ad copy for garbage disposals.
And hacking programming languages doesn't pay as well
as figuring out how to connect some company's
legacy database to their Web server.I think the answer to this problem, in the case of software,
is a concept known to nearly all makers: the day job.
This phrase began with musicians, who
perform at night.  More generally, it means that you have one
kind of work you do for money, and another for love.Nearly all makers have day jobs early in their careers.
Painters and writers notoriously do.  If you're lucky
you can get a day job that's closely
related to your real work.  Musicians often
seem to work in record stores.  A hacker working on some
programming language or operating system might likewise be able to
get a day job using it.  [1]When I say that the answer is for hackers to have day jobs, 
and work on beautiful software on the side, I'm not proposing
this as a new idea.  This is what open-source hacking is all   
about.  What I'm saying is that open-source is probably the right
model, because it has been independently confirmed by all the  
other makers.It seems surprising to me that any employer would be reluctant
to let hackers work on open-source projects.
At Viaweb, we would have been reluctant to hire anyone
who didn't.  When we interviewed
programmers, the main
thing we cared about was what kind of software they
wrote in their spare time.
You can't do anything really well unless
you love it, and if you love to hack you'll inevitably
be working on projects of your own. [2]Because hackers are makers rather than scientists,
the right place to look for metaphors is not in the
sciences, but among other kinds of makers.  What else can painting
teach us about hacking?One thing we can learn, or at least confirm, from the
example of painting is how to learn to hack.  You learn to
paint mostly by doing it.
Ditto for hacking.  Most hackers don't learn to hack by
taking college courses in programming.  They learn to hack
by writing programs of their own at age thirteen.  Even in   
college classes, you learn to hack mostly by hacking. [3]Because painters leave a trail of work behind them, you
can watch them learn by doing.  If you look at the work
of a painter in chronological order, you'll find that each  
painting builds on things that have been learned in previous
ones.  When there's something in
a painting that works very well, you can usually find version 
1 of it in a smaller form in some earlier painting.I think most makers work this way.  Writers and architects seem
to as well.  Maybe it would be good for hackers
to act more like painters, and regularly start over from scratch,
instead of continuing to work for years on one project, and
trying to incorporate all their later ideas as revisions.The fact that hackers learn to hack by doing it is another
sign of how different hacking is from the sciences.  Scientists
don't learn science by doing it, but by doing labs and problem sets.
Scientists start out doing work that's perfect, in the sense
that they're just trying to reproduce work someone else has 
already done for them.
Eventually, they get
to the point where they can do original work.
Whereas hackers, from the start, are doing original work; it's
just very bad.  So hackers start original, and get good, and
scientists start good, and get original.
The other way makers learn is from examples.
For a painter, a museum is a reference library of techniques.
For hundreds of years it has been part of the traditional
education of painters to copy the works of the great masters,
because copying forces you to look closely
at the way a painting is made.Writers do this too.
Benjamin Franklin learned to write by summarizing the points   
in the essays of Addison and Steele and then trying to
reproduce them.  Raymond Chandler did the same thing
with detective stories.Hackers, likewise, can learn to program by looking at 
good programs-- not just at what they do, but the source
code too.  One of the less publicized benefits
of the open-source movement is that it has made it easier
to learn to program.  When I learned to program, we had to rely
mostly on examples in books.  The one big chunk of
code available then was Unix, but even this was not   
open source.  Most of the people who read the source
read it in illicit photocopies of John Lions' book, which
though written in 1977 was not allowed to be published
until 1996.Another example we can take from painting is the way that
paintings are created by gradual refinement.  Paintings usually
begin with a sketch.
Gradually the details get filled in.
But it is not merely a process of filling in. Sometimes   
the original plans turn out to be mistaken.
Countless paintings,
when you look at them in xrays, turn out to have limbs that
have been moved or facial features that have been readjusted.Here's a case where we can learn from painting.  I think hacking
should work this way too.  It's unrealistic
to expect that the specifications for a program will be
perfect. You're
better off if you admit this up front, and write programs in
a way that allows specifications to change on the fly.(The structure of large companies makes this hard for them
to do, so here is another place where startups have an advantage.)Everyone by now presumably knows about the danger of premature
optimization.  I think we should be just as worried about
premature design-- deciding too early what
a program should do.The right tools can help us avoid
this danger.
A good programming language should, like oil paint, make it
easy to change your mind.  Dynamic typing is a win here because
you don't have to
commit to specific data representations up front.
But the key to flexibility, I think, is to make the language
very abstract.
The easiest program to change is one that's very short.
This sounds like a paradox, but a great painting
has to be better than it has to be.
For example, when Leonardo
painted the portrait of Ginevra de Benci
in the National Gallery, he put a juniper bush behind her head.
In it he carefully
painted each individual leaf.  Many painters might have thought,
this is just something to put in the background to frame
her head.  No one will look that closely at it.Not Leonardo.  How hard he worked on part of a painting didn't
depend at all on how closely he expected anyone to look at it.
He was like Michael Jordan.  Relentless.Relentlessness wins because, in the aggregate, unseen details
become visible.
When people walk by the portrait of Ginevra de Benci,
their attention is often immediately arrested by it,
even before they look at the label and notice that it says
Leonardo da Vinci.  All those unseen details combine to produce
something that's just stunning, like a thousand barely audible
voices all singing in tune.Great software, likewise, requires a fanatical devotion to
beauty.  If you look inside good software, you find that
parts no one is ever supposed to see are beautiful too.
I'm not claiming I write great software, but I
know that when it comes to code I behave in a way that would
make me eligible for prescription drugs if I approached everyday
life the same way.
It drives me crazy to see code that's badly indented,
or that uses ugly variable names.If a hacker were a mere implementor, turning a spec into code, then
he could just work his way through it from one end to the other like
someone digging a ditch.  But if the hacker is a creator, we have
to take inspiration into account.In hacking, like painting,
work comes in cycles.  Sometimes you get excited about some
new project and you want to work sixteen hours a day on it. 
Other times nothing seems interesting.To do good work you have to take these cycles into
account, because they're affected by how you react to them.
When you're driving a
car with a manual transmission on a hill, you have to back off
the clutch sometimes to avoid stalling.  Backing
off can likewise prevent ambition from stalling.
In both painting and hacking there are some
tasks that are terrifyingly ambitious, and others that are
comfortingly routine.  It's a good idea to save some easy
tasks for moments when you would otherwise stall.In hacking, this can literally mean saving up bugs.
I like debugging: it's the
one time that hacking is as straightforward as   
people think it is.  You have a
totally constrained problem, and all you have to do is solve
it.  Your program is supposed to do x.  Instead it does y.
Where does it go wrong? You know you're going to win
in the end.  It's as relaxing as painting a wall.The example of painting can teach us not only how to manage our
own work, but how to work together.  A lot of the
great art of the past is the work of multiple hands, though
there may only be one name on the wall next to it in the
museum.  Leonardo was an apprentice in the workshop of
Verrocchio and painted one of the angels in his Baptism of
Christ.  This sort of thing was the rule, not the exception.
Michelangelo was considered especially dedicated for insisting
on painting all the figures on the ceiling of the Sistine
Chapel himself.As far as I know, when painters worked together on a painting,
they never worked on the same parts.  It was common
for the master to paint the principal figures and for assistants
to paint the others and the background.  But you never had
one guy painting over the work of another.I think this is the right model for collaboration in software
too.  Don't push it too far.  When a piece of code is
being hacked by three or four different people, no one of whom
really owns it, it will end up being like a common-room.  It will
tend to feel bleak and abandoned, and accumulate cruft.
The right
way to collaborate, I think, is to divide projects into sharply
defined modules, each with a definite owner, and with interfaces
between them that are as carefully designed and, if possible,
as articulated as programming languages.Like painting, most software is intended for
a human audience.  And so hackers, like painters, must have
empathy to do really great work.  You have to be able to see
things from the user's point of view.When I was a kid I was always being told to look at things from
someone else's point of view.  What this always meant in
practice was to do what someone else wanted, instead of what
I wanted.  This of course gave empathy a bad name, and I made a
point of not cultivating it.Boy, was I wrong.  It turns out that looking at things from 
other people's point of view is practically the secret of
success.  It doesn't necessarily mean being self-sacrificing.
Far from it.  Understanding how someone else sees things
doesn't imply that you'll act in his interest; in some
situations-- in war, for example-- you want to do exactly
the opposite. [4]Most makers make things for a human audience.
And to engage an audience you have to understand what they need.
Nearly all the greatest paintings are paintings of people,
for example, because people are what people are interested in.Empathy is probably the single most important difference
between a good hacker and a great one.  Some hackers
are quite smart, but when it comes to empathy are
practically solipsists.  It's hard for such      
people to design great software [5], because they can't
see things from the user's point of view.One way to tell how good people are at empathy is to watch
them explain a technical question to someone without a technical
background.  We probably all know people who, though otherwise smart,
are just comically bad at this.  If someone asks them at
a dinner party what a programming language is, they'll
say something like ``Oh, a high-level language is what
the compiler uses as input to generate object code.''
High-level language?  Compiler?  Object code?  Someone who 
doesn't know what a programming language is obviously doesn't
know what these things are, either.Part of what software has to do is explain itself.  So to   
write good software you have to understand how little users   
understand.
They're going to walk up to the software with no preparation, and
it had better do what they guess it will, because they're
not going to read the manual.  The best system I've ever seen 
in this respect was the original Macintosh, in 1985.
It did what software almost never does: it just worked. [6]Source code, too, should explain itself.  If I could get people to
remember just one quote about programming, it would be the
one at the beginning of Structure and Interpretation of Computer
Programs.  

Programs should be written for people to read, and
only incidentally for machines to execute.

You need to have 
empathy not just for your users, but for your readers.  It's in  
your interest, because you'll be one of them.
Many a hacker has written a program only to
find on returning to it six months later that he has no idea   
how it works.  I know several people who've sworn off Perl after
such experiences. [7]Lack of empathy is associated with intelligence, to the point
that there is even something of a fashion for it in some places.
But I don't think there's any correlation.
You can do well in math and
the natural sciences without having to learn empathy, and people in these
fields tend to be smart, so the two qualities have come to be
associated.  But there are plenty of dumb people who are bad at
empathy too.  Just listen to the people who call in with questions on
talk shows.  They ask whatever it is they're asking in
such a roundabout way
that the hosts often have to rephrase the question for them.So, if hacking works like painting and writing, is it as cool?
After all, you only get one life.
You might as well spend it working on something great.Unfortunately, the question is hard to answer.  There is always
a big time lag in prestige.  It's like light from a distant star.
Painting has prestige now because of great work people did five hundred
years ago.  At the time, no one thought
these paintings were as important as we do today.  It would have
seemed very odd to people at the time that Federico da Montefeltro,
the Duke of Urbino, would one day be known mostly as the guy
with the strange nose in a painting 
by Piero della Francesca.So while I admit that hacking doesn't seem as cool as painting now,
we should remember that painting itself didn't seem as cool in
its glory days as it does now.What we can say with some confidence is that these are the glory
days of hacking.  In most fields the great work is done early on.
The paintings made between 1430 and 1500 are still unsurpassed.
Shakespeare appeared just as professional theater was being born,

and pushed the medium
so far that every playwright since has had to live in his shadow.
Albrecht Durer did the same thing with engraving, and Jane Austen
with the novel.Over and over we see the same pattern.  A new medium appears, and
people are so excited about it that they explore most of its
possibilities in the first couple generations.   Hacking seems
to be in this phase now.Painting was not, in Leonardo's time, as cool as his work
helped make it.
How cool hacking turns out to be will depend on what we can
do with this new medium.  
Notes[1] The greatest damage that photography has done
to painting may be the fact that it killed the best day job.
Most of the great painters in history supported
themselves by painting portraits.  [2] I've been told that Microsoft discourages
employees from contributing to open-source projects, even in
their spare time.
But so many of the best hackers work on open-source
projects now that the main effect of this policy may be
to ensure that they won't be able to hire any first-rate
programmers.[3] What you learn about programming in college is much like
what you learn about books or clothes or dating: what bad taste you
had in high school.[4] Here's an example of applied empathy.
At Viaweb, if we couldn't decide between two alternatives, we'd
ask, what would our competitors hate most?  At one point a
competitor added a feature to their software that was basically
useless, but since it was one of few they had that we didn't, they
made much of it in the trade press.
We could have tried to explain that the feature was useless,
but we decided it would annoy our competitor more if we
just implemented it ourselves, so we hacked together our own
version that afternoon.[5] Except text editors and compilers.  Hackers don't need empathy to
design these, because they are themselves typical users.[6] Well, almost.  They overshot the available RAM somewhat,
causing much inconvenient disk swapping, but this could be fixed
within a few months by buying an additional disk drive.[7] The way to make programs easy to read is not to
stuff them with comments. I would take Abelson and Sussman's
quote a step further.  Programming languages should be designed
to express algorithms, and only incidentally to tell computers
how to execute them.  A good programming language
ought to be better for explaining software than English.
You should only
need comments when there is some kind of kludge you need to warn
readers about, just as on a road there are only
arrows on parts with unexpectedly sharp curves.
Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Robert Morris, Dan Giffin, and Lisa
Randall for reading drafts of this, and to Henry Leitner
and Larry Finkelstein for inviting me to speak.Japanese TranslationSpanish TranslationGerman TranslationPortuguese TranslationCzech TranslationWhy Good Design Comes from Bad DesignKnuth: Computer Programming as an Art
You'll find this essay and 14 others in
Hackers & Painters.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

May 2003If Lisp is so great, why don't more people use it?  I was    
asked this question by a student in the audience at a 
talk I gave recently.  Not for the first time, either.In languages, as in so many things, there's not much     
correlation between popularity and quality.  Why does   
John Grisham (King of Torts sales rank, 44) outsell
Jane Austen (Pride and Prejudice sales rank, 6191)?
Would even Grisham claim that it's because he's a better
writer?Here's the first sentence of Pride and Prejudice:

It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man 
in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a
wife.

"It is a truth universally acknowledged?"  Long words for
the first sentence of a love story.Like Jane Austen, Lisp looks hard.  Its syntax, or lack
of syntax, makes it look completely unlike 
the languages
most people are used to.  Before I learned Lisp, I was afraid
of it too.  I recently came across a notebook from 1983
in which I'd written:

I suppose I should learn Lisp, but it seems so foreign.

Fortunately, I was 19 at the time and not too resistant to learning
new things.  I was so ignorant that learning
almost anything meant learning new things.People frightened by Lisp make up other reasons for not
using it.  The standard
excuse, back when C was the default language, was that Lisp
was too slow.  Now that Lisp dialects are among
the faster
languages available, that excuse has gone away.
Now the standard excuse is openly circular: that other languages
are more popular.(Beware of such reasoning.  It gets you Windows.)Popularity is always self-perpetuating, but it's especially
so in programming languages. More libraries
get written for popular languages, which makes them still
more popular.  Programs often have to work with existing programs,
and this is easier if they're written in the same language,
so languages spread from program to program like a virus.
And managers prefer popular languages, because they give them 
more leverage over developers, who can more easily be replaced.Indeed, if programming languages were all more or less equivalent,
there would be little justification for using any but the most
popular.  But they aren't all equivalent, not by a long
shot.  And that's why less popular languages, like Jane Austen's 
novels, continue to survive at all.  When everyone else is reading 
the latest John Grisham novel, there will always be a few people 
reading Jane Austen instead.Japanese TranslationRomanian TranslationSpanish Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2003(This essay is derived from a keynote talk at PyCon 2003.)It's hard to predict what
life will be like in a hundred years.  There are only a few
things we can say with certainty.  We know that everyone will
drive flying cars,
that zoning laws will be relaxed to allow buildings
hundreds of stories tall, that it will be dark most of the
time, and that women will all be trained in the martial arts.  
Here I want to zoom in on one detail of this
picture.  What kind of programming language will they use to
write the software controlling those flying cars?This is worth thinking about not so
much because we'll actually get to use these languages as because,
if we're lucky, we'll use languages on the path from this
point to that.I think that, like species, languages will form evolutionary trees,
with dead-ends branching off all over.  We can see this
happening already.
Cobol, for all its sometime popularity, does not seem to have any
intellectual descendants.  It is an evolutionary dead-end-- a
Neanderthal language.I predict a similar fate for Java.  People
sometimes send me mail saying, "How can you say that Java
won't turn out to be a successful language?  It's already
a successful language."  And I admit that it is, if you
measure success by shelf space taken up by books on it
(particularly individual books on it), or by
the number of undergrads who believe they have to
learn it to get a job.  When I say Java won't
turn out to be a successful language, I mean something more
specific:  that Java
will turn out to be an evolutionary dead-end, like Cobol.This is just a guess.  I may be wrong.  My point here is not to dis Java,
but to raise the issue of evolutionary
trees and get people asking, where on the tree is language X?
The reason to ask this question isn't just so that
our ghosts can say, in a
hundred years, I told you so.  It's because staying close to  
the main branches is a useful heuristic for finding languages that will
be good to program in now.At any given time, you're probably happiest on
the main branches of an evolutionary tree.
Even when there were still plenty of Neanderthals, 
it must have sucked to be one.  The
Cro-Magnons would have been constantly coming over and
beating you up and stealing your food.The reason I want to
know what languages will be like in a hundred years is so that
I know what branch of the tree to bet on now.The evolution of languages differs from the evolution of species
because branches can converge.  The Fortran branch, for example,
seems to be merging with the descendants
of Algol.  In theory this is possible for species too, but it's
not likely to have happened to any bigger than a cell.Convergence
is more likely for languages partly because the space of
possibilities is smaller, and partly because mutations
are not random.  Language designers deliberately incorporate
ideas from other languages.It's especially useful for language designers to think
about where the evolution of programming languages is likely
to lead, because they can steer accordingly. 
In that case, "stay on a main branch" becomes more than a
way to choose a good language.
It becomes a heuristic for making the right decisions about
language design.Any programming language can be divided into
two parts:  some set of fundamental operators that play the role
of axioms, and the rest of the language, which could in principle
be written in terms of these fundamental operators.I think the fundamental operators are the most important factor in a
language's long term survival.  The rest you can change.  It's
like the rule that in buying a house you should consider
location first of all.  Everything else you can fix later, but you
can't fix the location.I think it's important not just that the axioms be well chosen, 
but that there be few of them.  Mathematicians have always felt 
this way about axioms-- the fewer, the better-- and I think they're
onto something.At the very least, it has to be a useful exercise to look closely
at the core of a language to see if there are any axioms that
could be weeded out.  I've found in my long career as a slob that
cruft breeds cruft, and I've seen this happen in software as
well as under beds and in the corners of rooms.I have a hunch that
the main branches of the evolutionary tree pass through the languages
that have the smallest, cleanest cores.
The more of a language you can write in itself,
the better.Of course, I'm making a big assumption in even asking what
programming languages will be like in a hundred years.
Will we even be writing programs in a hundred years?  Won't
we just tell computers what we want them to do?There hasn't been a lot of progress in that department
so far.
My guess is that a hundred years from now people will
still tell computers what to do using programs we would recognize
as such.  There may be tasks that we
solve now by writing programs and which in a hundred years
you won't have to write programs to solve, but I think
there will still be a good deal of
programming of the type that we do today.It may seem presumptuous to think anyone can predict what
any technology will look like in a hundred years.  But
remember that we already have almost fifty years of history behind us.
Looking forward a hundred years is a graspable idea
when we consider how slowly languages have evolved in the
past fifty.Languages evolve slowly because they're not really technologies.
Languages are notation.  A program is a formal description of 
the problem you want a computer to solve for you.  So the rate
of evolution in programming languages is more like the
rate of evolution in mathematical notation than, say,
transportation or communications.
Mathematical notation does evolve, but not with the giant
leaps you see in technology.Whatever computers are made of in a hundred years, it seems  
safe to predict they will be much faster than
they are now.  If Moore's Law continues to put out, they will be 74
quintillion (73,786,976,294,838,206,464) times faster.  That's kind of
hard to imagine.  And indeed, the most likely prediction in the
speed department may be that Moore's Law will stop working.
Anything that is supposed to double every eighteen months seems
likely to run up against some kind of fundamental limit eventually.
But I have no trouble believing that computers will be very much
faster. Even if they only end up being a paltry million
times faster, that should change the ground rules for programming
languages substantially.  Among other things, there
will be more room for what
would now be considered slow languages, meaning languages
that don't yield very efficient code.And yet some applications will still demand speed.
Some of the problems we want to solve with
computers are created by computers; for example, the
rate at which you have to process video images depends
on the rate at which another computer can
generate them.  And there is another class of problems
which inherently have an unlimited capacity to soak up cycles:
image rendering, cryptography, simulations.If some applications can be increasingly inefficient while
others continue to demand all the speed the hardware can
deliver, faster computers will mean that languages have
to cover an ever wider range of efficiencies.  We've seen
this happening already.  Current implementations of some
popular new languages are shockingly wasteful by the
standards of previous decades.This isn't just something that happens with programming
languages.  It's a general historical trend.  As technologies improve,
each generation can do things that the previous generation
would have considered wasteful.  People thirty years ago would
be astonished at how casually we make long distance phone calls.
People a hundred years ago would be even more astonished that 
a package would one day travel from Boston to New York via Memphis.I can already tell you what's going to happen to all those extra
cycles that faster hardware is going to give us in the   
next hundred years.  They're nearly all going to be wasted.I learned to program when computer power was scarce.
I can remember taking all the spaces out of my Basic programs
so they would fit into the memory of a 4K TRS-80.  The
thought of all this stupendously inefficient software
burning up cycles doing the same thing over and over seems
kind of gross to me.  But I think my intuitions here are wrong.  I'm
like someone who grew up poor, and can't bear to spend money
even for something important, like going to the doctor.Some kinds of waste really are disgusting.  SUVs, for example, would
arguably be gross even if they ran on a fuel which would never
run out and generated no pollution.  SUVs are gross because they're
the solution to a gross problem. (How to make minivans look more
masculine.)
But not all waste is bad.  Now that we have the infrastructure
to support it, counting the minutes of your long-distance
calls starts to seem niggling.   If you have the
resources, it's more elegant to think of all phone calls as
one kind of thing, no matter where the other person is.There's good waste, and bad waste.  I'm interested
in good waste-- the kind where, by spending more, we can get  
simpler designs.  How will we take advantage of the opportunities
to waste cycles that we'll get from new, faster hardware?The desire for speed is so deeply engrained in us, with 
our puny computers, that it will take a conscious effort
to overcome it.  In language design, we should be consciously seeking out
situations where we can trade efficiency for even the
smallest increase in convenience.Most data structures exist because of speed.  For example,
many languages today have both strings and lists.  Semantically, strings
are more or less a subset of lists in which the elements are
characters.  So why do you need a separate data type?
You don't, really.  Strings only
exist for efficiency.  But it's lame to clutter up the semantics
of the language with hacks to make programs run faster.
Having strings in a language seems to be a case of
premature optimization.If we think of the core of a language as a set of axioms,  
surely it's gross to have additional axioms that add no expressive
power, simply for the sake of efficiency.  Efficiency is
important, but I don't think that's the right way to get it.The right way to solve that problem, I think, is to separate
the meaning of a program from the implementation details. 
Instead of having both lists and strings, have just lists,
with some way to give the compiler optimization advice that 
will allow it to lay out strings as contiguous bytes if
necessary.Since speed doesn't matter in most of a program, you won't
ordinarily need to bother with
this sort of micromanagement.
This will be more and more true as computers get faster.Saying less about implementation should also make programs
more flexible.
Specifications change while a program is being written, and this is not
only inevitable, but desirable.The word "essay" comes
from the French verb "essayer", which means "to try".
An essay, in the original sense, is something you
write to try to figure something out.  This happens in
software too.  I think some of the best programs were essays,
in the sense that the authors didn't know when they started
exactly what they were trying to write.Lisp hackers already know about the value of being flexible
with data structures.  We tend to write the first version of
a program so that it does everything with lists.  These
initial versions can be so shockingly inefficient that it
takes a conscious effort not to think about what they're
doing, just as, for me at least, eating a steak requires a
conscious effort not to think where it came from.What programmers in a hundred years will be looking for, most of
all, is a language where you can throw together an unbelievably
inefficient version 1 of a program with the least possible
effort.  At least, that's how we'd describe it in present-day
terms.  What they'll say is that they want a language that's
easy to program in.Inefficient software isn't gross.  What's gross is a language
that makes programmers do needless work.  Wasting programmer time
is the true inefficiency, not wasting machine time.  This will
become ever more clear as computers get faster.I think getting rid of strings is already something we
could bear to think about.  We did it in Arc, and it seems
to be a win;  some operations that would be awkward to
describe as regular expressions can be described
easily as recursive functions.How far will this flattening of data structures go?  I can think
of possibilities that shock even me, with my conscientiously broadened
mind.  Will we get rid of arrays, for example?  After all, they're
just a subset of hash tables where the keys are vectors of
integers.   Will we replace hash tables themselves with lists?There are more shocking prospects even than that.  The Lisp
that McCarthy described in 1960, for example, didn't
have numbers.  Logically, you don't need to have a separate notion
of numbers, because you can represent them as lists:  the integer
n could be represented as a list of n elements.  You can do math this
way.  It's just unbearably inefficient.No one actually proposed implementing numbers as lists in
practice.  In fact, McCarthy's 1960 paper was not, at the time,
intended to be implemented at all.  It was a theoretical exercise,
an attempt to create a more elegant alternative to the Turing
Machine.  When someone did, unexpectedly, take this paper and
translate it into a working Lisp interpreter, numbers certainly
weren't represented as lists; they were represented in binary,
as in every other language.Could a programming language go so far as to get rid of numbers
as a fundamental data type?  I ask this not so much as a serious
question as as a way to play chicken with the future.  It's like
the hypothetical case of an irresistible force meeting an 
immovable object-- here, an unimaginably inefficient
implementation meeting unimaginably great resources.
I don't see why not.  The future is pretty long.  If there's
something we can do to decrease the number of axioms in the core
language, that would seem to be the side to bet on as t approaches
infinity.  If the idea still seems unbearable in a hundred years,
maybe it won't in a thousand.Just to be clear about this, I'm not proposing that all numerical
calculations would actually be carried out using lists.  I'm proposing
that the core language, prior to any additional notations about
implementation, be defined this way.  In practice any program
that wanted to do any amount of math would probably represent
numbers in binary, but this would be an optimization, not part of
the core language semantics.Another way to burn up cycles is to have many layers of
software between the application and the hardware.  This too is
a trend we see happening already: many recent languages are
compiled into byte code.  Bill Woods once told me that,
as a rule of thumb, each layer of interpretation costs a
factor of 10 in speed.  This extra cost buys you flexibility.The very first version of Arc was an extreme case of this sort
of multi-level slowness, with corresponding benefits.  It
was a classic "metacircular" interpreter written
on top of Common Lisp, with a definite family resemblance
to the eval function defined in McCarthy's original Lisp paper.
The whole thing was only a couple hundred lines of
code, so it was very easy to understand and change.  The 
Common Lisp we used, CLisp, itself runs on top
of a byte code interpreter.  So here we had two levels of
interpretation, one of them (the top one) shockingly inefficient,
and the language was usable.  Barely usable, I admit, but
usable.Writing software as multiple layers is a powerful technique
even within applications.  Bottom-up programming means writing
a program as a series of layers, each of which serves as a
language for the one above.  This approach tends to yield
smaller, more flexible programs.  It's also the best route to   
that holy grail, reusability.  A language is by definition
reusable.  The more
of your application you can push down into a language for writing
that type of application, the more of your software will be 
reusable.Somehow the idea of reusability got attached
to object-oriented programming in the 1980s, and no amount of
evidence to the contrary seems to be able to shake it free.  But
although some object-oriented software is reusable, what makes
it reusable is its bottom-upness, not its object-orientedness.
Consider libraries: they're reusable because they're language,
whether they're written in an object-oriented style or not.I don't predict the demise of object-oriented programming, by the
way.  Though I don't think it has much to offer good programmers,
except in certain specialized domains, it is irresistible to   
large organizations.  Object-oriented programming
offers a sustainable way to write spaghetti code.  It lets you accrete
programs as a series of patches.

Large organizations
always tend to develop software this way, and I expect this
to be as true in a hundred years as it is today.
As long as we're talking about the future, we had better
talk about parallel computation, because that's where this 
idea seems to live.  That is, no matter when you're talking, parallel
computation seems to be something that is going to happen
in the future.Will the future ever catch up with it?  People have been
talking about parallel computation as something imminent 
for at least 20
years, and it hasn't affected programming practice much so far.
Or hasn't it?  Already
chip designers have to think about it, and so must
people trying to write systems software on multi-cpu computers.The real question is, how far up the ladder of abstraction will
parallelism go?
In a hundred years will it affect even application programmers?  Or
will it be something that compiler writers think about, but
which is usually invisible in the source code of applications?One thing that does seem likely is that most opportunities for
parallelism will be wasted.  This is a special case of my more   
general prediction that most of the extra computer power we're
given will go to waste.  I expect that, as with the stupendous
speed of the underlying hardware, parallelism will be something
that is available if you ask for it explicitly, but ordinarily
not used.  This implies that the kind of parallelism we have in
a hundred years will not, except in special applications, be
massive parallelism.  I expect for
ordinary programmers it will be more like being able to fork off
processes that all end up running in parallel.And this will, like asking for specific implementations of data
structures, be something that you do fairly late in the life of a
program, when you try to optimize it.  Version 1s will ordinarily
ignore any advantages to be got from parallel computation, just
as they will ignore advantages to be got from specific representations
of data.Except in special kinds of applications, parallelism won't
pervade the programs that are written in a hundred years.  It would be
premature optimization if it did.How many programming languages will there
be in a hundred years?  There seem to be a huge number of new
programming languages lately.  Part of the reason is that
faster hardware has allowed programmers to make different
tradeoffs between speed and convenience, depending on the
application.  If this is a real trend, the hardware we'll  
have in a hundred years should only increase it.And yet there may be only a few widely-used languages in a
hundred years.  Part of the reason I say this
is optimism: it seems that, if you did a really good job,
you could make a language that was ideal for writing a   
slow version 1, and yet with the right optimization advice
to the compiler, would also yield very fast code when necessary.
So, since I'm optimistic, I'm going to predict that despite
the huge gap they'll have between acceptable and maximal
efficiency, programmers in a hundred years will have languages 
that can span most of it.As this gap widens, profilers will become increasingly important.
Little attention is paid to profiling now.  Many people still
seem to believe that the way to get fast applications is to
write compilers that generate fast code.  As the gap between    
acceptable and maximal performance widens, it will become
increasingly clear that the way to get fast applications is   
to have a good guide from one to the other.When I say there may only be a few languages, I'm not including
domain-specific "little languages".  I think such embedded languages
are a great idea, and I expect them to proliferate.  But I expect
them to be written as thin enough skins that users can see
the general-purpose language underneath.Who will design the languages of the future?  One of the most exciting
trends in the last ten years has been the rise of open-source  
languages like Perl, Python, and Ruby.
Language design is being taken over by hackers.  The results
so far are messy, but encouraging.  There are some stunningly  
novel ideas in Perl, for example. Many are stunningly bad, but
that's always true of ambitious efforts.  At its current rate
of mutation, God knows what Perl might evolve into in a hundred
years.It's not true that those who can't do, teach (some of the best
hackers I know are professors), but it is true that there are a
lot of things that those who teach can't do.  Research imposes
constraining caste restrictions.  In any academic
field there are topics that are ok to work on and others that
aren't.  Unfortunately the distinction between acceptable and
forbidden topics is usually based on how intellectual
the work sounds when described in research papers, rather than
how important it is for getting good results.  The extreme case
is probably literature; people studying literature rarely  
say anything that would be of the slightest use to those
producing it.Though the situation is better in the sciences,
the overlap between the kind of work you're allowed to do and the
kind of work that yields good languages is distressingly small.
(Olin Shivers has grumbled eloquently
about this.)  For example, types seem to be an inexhaustible source
of research papers, despite the fact that static typing
seems to preclude true macros-- without which, in my opinion, no
language is worth using.The trend is not merely toward languages being developed
as open-source projects rather than "research", but toward
languages being designed by the application programmers who need
to use them, rather than by compiler writers.  This seems a good
trend and I expect it to continue.
Unlike physics in a hundred years, which is almost necessarily
impossible to predict, I think it may be possible in principle
to design a language now that would appeal to users in a hundred
years.One way to design a language is to just write down the program
you'd like to be able to write, regardless of whether there 
is a compiler that can translate it or hardware that can run it.
When you do this you can assume unlimited resources.  It seems
like we ought to be able to imagine unlimited resources as well
today as in a hundred years.What program would one like to write?  Whatever is least work.
Except not quite: whatever would be least work if your ideas about
programming weren't already influenced by the languages you're 
currently used to.  Such influence can be so pervasive that   
it takes a great effort to overcome it.  You'd think it would
be obvious to creatures as lazy as us how to express a program
with the least effort.  In fact, our ideas about what's possible
tend to be so limited by whatever language we think in  that
easier formulations of programs seem very surprising.  They're
something you have to discover, not something you naturally
sink into.One helpful trick here
is to use the length of the program as an approximation for
how much work it is to write.  Not the length in characters,
of course, but the length in distinct syntactic elements-- basically,
the size of the parse tree.  It may not be quite true that
the shortest program is the least work to write, but it's
close enough that you're better off aiming for the solid
target of brevity than the fuzzy, nearby one of least work.
Then the algorithm for language design becomes: look at a program
and ask, is there any way to write this that's shorter?In practice, writing programs in an imaginary hundred-year
language will work to varying degrees depending
on how close you are to the core.  Sort routines you can
write now.  But it would be
hard to predict now what kinds of libraries might be needed in
a hundred years.  Presumably many libraries will be for domains that
don't even exist yet.  If SETI@home works, for example, we'll  
need libraries for communicating with aliens.  Unless of course
they are sufficiently advanced that they already communicate
in XML.At the other extreme, I think you might be able to design the
core language today.  In fact, some might argue that it was already
mostly designed in 1958.If the hundred year language were available today, would we
want to program in it?  One way to answer this question is to
look back.  If present-day programming languages had been available
in 1960, would anyone have wanted to use them?In some ways, the answer is no.  Languages today assume
infrastructure that didn't exist in 1960.  For example, a language
in which indentation is significant, like Python, would not
work very well on printer terminals.  But putting such problems
aside-- assuming, for example, that programs were all just
written on paper-- would programmers of the 1960s have liked
writing programs in the languages we use now?I think so.
Some of the less imaginative ones,
who had artifacts of early languages built into their ideas of  
what a program was, might have had trouble.  (How can you manipulate
data without doing pointer arithmetic?  How can you implement 
flow charts without gotos?)  But I think the smartest programmers
would have had no trouble making the most of present-day
languages, if they'd had them.If we had the hundred-year language now, it would at least make a
great pseudocode.  What about using it to write software?   
Since the hundred-year language
will need to generate fast code for some applications, presumably
it could generate code efficient enough to run acceptably well
on our hardware.  We might have to give more optimization advice
than users in a hundred years, but it still might be a net win.Now we have two ideas that, if you combine them, suggest interesting
possibilities: (1) the hundred-year language could, in principle, be
designed today, and (2) such a language, if it existed, might be good to
program in today.  When you see these ideas laid out like that,
it's hard not to think, why not try writing the hundred-year language
now?When you're working on language design, I think it is good to
have such a target and to keep it consciously in mind.  When you
learn to drive, one of the principles they teach you is to
align the car not by lining up the hood with the stripes painted
on the road, but by aiming at some point in the distance.  Even
if all you care about is what happens in the next ten feet, this
is the right answer.  I
think we can and should do the same thing with programming languages.NotesI believe Lisp Machine Lisp was the first language to embody
the principle that declarations (except those of dynamic variables)
were merely optimization advice,
and would not change the meaning of a correct program.  Common Lisp
seems to have been the first to state this explicitly.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Robert Morris, and Dan Giffin for
reading drafts of this, and to Guido van Rossum, Jeremy Hylton, and the
rest of the Python crew for inviting me to speak at PyCon.
You'll find this essay and 14 others in
Hackers & Painters.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

February 2003When we were in junior high school, my friend Rich and I made a map
of the school lunch tables according to popularity. This was easy
to do, because kids only ate lunch with others of about the same
popularity. We graded them from A to E. A tables were full of
football players and cheerleaders and so on. E tables contained the
kids with mild cases of Down's Syndrome, what in the language of
the time we called "retards."We sat at a D table, as low as you could get without looking
physically different. We were not being especially candid to grade
ourselves as D. It would have taken a deliberate lie to say otherwise.
Everyone in the school knew exactly how popular everyone else was,
including us.My stock gradually rose during high school. Puberty finally arrived;
I became a decent soccer player; I started a scandalous underground
newspaper.  So I've seen a good part of the popularity landscape.I know a lot of people who were nerds in school, and they all tell
the same story: there is a strong correlation between being smart
and being a nerd, and an even stronger inverse correlation between
being a nerd and being popular. Being smart seems to make you
unpopular.Why? To someone in school now, that may seem an odd question to
ask. The mere fact is so overwhelming that it may seem strange to
imagine that it could be any other way. But it could. Being smart
doesn't make you an outcast in elementary school. Nor does it harm
you in the real world. Nor, as far as I can tell, is the problem
so bad in most other countries. But in a typical American secondary
school, being smart is likely to make your life difficult.  Why?
The key to this mystery is to rephrase the question slightly. Why
don't smart kids make themselves popular? If they're so smart, why
don't they figure out how popularity works and beat the system,
just as they do for standardized tests?One argument says that this would be impossible, that the smart
kids are unpopular because the other kids envy them for being smart,
and nothing they could do could make them popular. I wish. If the
other kids in junior high school envied me, they did a great job
of concealing it. And in any case, if being smart were really an
enviable quality, the girls would have broken ranks. The guys that
guys envy, girls like.In the schools I went to, being smart just didn't matter much. Kids
didn't admire it or despise it. All other things being equal, they
would have preferred to be on the smart side of average rather than the
dumb side, but intelligence counted far less than, say, physical
appearance, charisma, or athletic ability.So if intelligence in itself is not a factor in popularity, why are
smart kids so consistently unpopular? The answer, I think, is that
they don't really want to be popular.If someone had told me that at the time, I would have laughed at
him. Being unpopular in school makes kids miserable, some of them
so miserable that they commit suicide. Telling me that I didn't
want to be popular would have seemed like telling someone dying of
thirst in a desert that he didn't want a glass of water. Of course
I wanted to be popular.But in fact I didn't, not enough. There was something else I wanted
more: to be smart. Not simply to do well in school, though that
counted for something, but to design beautiful rockets, or to write
well, or to understand how to program computers. In general, to
make great things.At the time I never tried to separate my wants and weigh them
against one another. If I had, I would have seen that being smart
was more important. If someone had offered me the chance to be
the most popular kid in school, but only at the price of being of
average intelligence (humor me here), I wouldn't have taken it.Much as they suffer from their unpopularity, I don't think many
nerds would. To them the thought of average intelligence is unbearable.
But most kids would take that deal. For half of them, it would be
a step up. Even for someone in the eightieth percentile (assuming,
as everyone seemed to then, that intelligence is a scalar), who
wouldn't drop thirty points in exchange for being loved and admired
by everyone?And that, I think, is the root of the problem. Nerds serve two
masters. They want to be popular, certainly, but they want even
more to be smart. And popularity is not something you can do in
your spare time, not in the fiercely competitive environment of an
American secondary school.
Alberti, arguably the archetype of the Renaissance Man, writes that
"no art, however minor, demands less than total dedication if you
want to excel in it."
I wonder if anyone in the world works harder
at anything than American school kids work at popularity. Navy SEALs
and neurosurgery residents seem slackers by comparison. They
occasionally take vacations; some even have hobbies. An American
teenager may work at being popular every waking hour, 365 days a
year.I don't mean to suggest they do this consciously. Some of them truly
are little Machiavellis, but what I really mean here is that teenagers
are always on duty as conformists.For example, teenage kids pay a great deal of attention to clothes.
They don't consciously dress to be popular. They dress to look good.
But to who? To the other kids. Other kids' opinions become their
definition of right, not just for clothes, but for almost everything
they do, right down to the way they walk. And so every effort they
make to do things "right" is also, consciously or not, an effort
to be more popular.Nerds don't realize this. They don't realize that it takes work to
be popular. In general, people outside some very demanding field
don't realize the extent to which success depends on constant (though
often unconscious) effort. For example, most people seem to consider
the ability to draw as some kind of innate quality, like being tall.
In fact, most people who "can draw" like drawing, and have spent
many hours doing it; that's why they're good at it. Likewise, popular
isn't just something you are or you aren't, but something you make
yourself.The main reason nerds are unpopular is that they have other things
to think about. Their attention is drawn to books or the natural
world, not fashions and parties. They're like someone trying to
play soccer while balancing a glass of water on his head. Other
players who can focus their whole attention on the game beat them
effortlessly, and wonder why they seem so incapable.Even if nerds cared as much as other kids about popularity, being
popular would be more work for them. The popular kids learned to
be popular, and to want to be popular, the same way the nerds learned
to be smart, and to want to be smart: from their parents. While the
nerds were being trained to get the right answers, the popular kids
were being trained to please.
So far I've been finessing the relationship between smart and nerd,
using them as if they were interchangeable. In fact it's only the
context that makes them so. A nerd is someone who isn't socially
adept enough. But "enough" depends on where you are. In a typical
American school, standards for coolness are so high (or at least,
so specific) that you don't have to be especially awkward to look
awkward by comparison.Few smart kids can spare the attention that popularity requires.
Unless they also happen to be good-looking, natural athletes, or
siblings of popular kids, they'll tend to become nerds. And that's
why smart people's lives are worst between, say, the ages of eleven
and seventeen. Life at that age revolves far more around popularity
than before or after.Before that, kids' lives are dominated by their parents, not by
other kids. Kids do care what their peers think in elementary school,
but this isn't their whole life, as it later becomes.Around the age of eleven, though, kids seem to start treating their
family as a day job. They create a new world among themselves, and
standing in this world is what matters, not standing in their family.
Indeed, being in trouble in their family can win them points in the
world they care about.The problem is, the world these kids create for themselves is at
first a very crude one. If you leave a bunch of eleven-year-olds
to their own devices, what you get is Lord of the Flies. Like
a lot of American kids, I read this book in school. Presumably it
was not a coincidence. Presumably someone wanted to point out to
us that we were savages, and that we had made ourselves a cruel and
stupid world. This was too subtle for me. While the book seemed
entirely believable, I didn't get the additional message. I wish
they had just told us outright that we were savages and our world
was stupid.
Nerds would find their unpopularity more bearable if it merely
caused them to be ignored. Unfortunately, to be unpopular in school
is to be actively persecuted.Why? Once again, anyone currently in school might think this a
strange question to ask. How could things be any other way? But
they could be. Adults don't normally persecute nerds. Why do teenage
kids do it?Partly because teenagers are still half children, and many
children are just intrinsically cruel. Some torture nerds for the
same reason they pull the legs off spiders. Before you develop a
conscience, torture is amusing.Another reason kids persecute nerds is to make themselves feel
better. When you tread water, you lift yourself up by pushing water
down. Likewise, in any social hierarchy, people unsure of their own
position will try to emphasize it by maltreating those they think
rank below. I've read that this is why poor whites in the United
States are the group most hostile to blacks.But I think the main reason other kids persecute nerds is that it's
part of the mechanism of popularity. Popularity is only partially
about individual attractiveness. It's much more about alliances.
To become more popular, you need to be constantly doing things that
bring you close to other popular people, and nothing brings people
closer than a common enemy.Like a politician who wants to distract voters from bad times at
home, you can create an enemy if there isn't a real one. By singling
out and persecuting a nerd, a group of kids from higher in the
hierarchy create bonds between themselves. Attacking an outsider
makes them all insiders. This is why the worst cases of bullying
happen with groups. Ask any nerd: you get much worse treatment from
a group of kids than from any individual bully, however sadistic.If it's any consolation to the nerds, it's nothing personal. The
group of kids who band together to pick on you are doing the same
thing, and for the same reason, as a bunch of guys who get together
to go hunting. They don't actually hate you. They just need something
to chase.Because they're at the bottom of the scale, nerds are a safe target
for the entire school. If I remember correctly, the most popular
kids don't persecute nerds; they don't need to stoop to such things.
Most of the persecution comes from kids lower down, the nervous
middle classes.The trouble is, there are a lot of them. The distribution of
popularity is not a pyramid, but tapers at the bottom like a pear.
The least popular group is quite small. (I believe we were the only
D table in our cafeteria map.) So there are more people who want
to pick on nerds than there are nerds.As well as gaining points by distancing oneself from unpopular kids,
one loses points by being close to them. A woman I know says that
in high school she liked nerds, but was afraid to be seen talking
to them because the other girls would make fun of her. Unpopularity
is a communicable disease; kids too nice to pick on nerds will still
ostracize them in self-defense.It's no wonder, then, that smart kids tend to be unhappy in middle
school and high school. Their other interests leave them little
attention to spare for popularity, and since popularity resembles
a zero-sum game, this in turn makes them targets for the whole
school. And the strange thing is, this nightmare scenario happens
without any conscious malice, merely because of the shape of the
situation.
For me the worst stretch was junior high, when kid culture was new
and harsh, and the specialization that would later gradually separate
the smarter kids had barely begun. Nearly everyone I've talked to
agrees: the nadir is somewhere between eleven and fourteen.In our school it was eighth grade, which was ages twelve and thirteen
for me. There was a brief sensation that year when one of our
teachers overheard a group of girls waiting for the school bus, and
was so shocked that the next day she devoted the whole class to an
eloquent plea not to be so cruel to one another.It didn't have any noticeable effect. What struck me at the time
was that she was surprised. You mean she doesn't know the kind of
things they say to one another? You mean this isn't normal?It's important to realize that, no, the adults don't know what the
kids are doing to one another. They know, in the abstract, that
kids are monstrously cruel to one another, just as we know in the
abstract that people get tortured in poorer countries. But, like
us, they don't like to dwell on this depressing fact, and they don't
see evidence of specific abuses unless they go looking for it.Public school teachers are in much the same position as prison
wardens. Wardens' main concern is to keep the prisoners on the
premises. They also need to keep them fed, and as far as possible
prevent them from killing one another. Beyond that, they want to
have as little to do with the prisoners as possible, so they leave
them to create whatever social organization they want. From what
I've read, the society that the prisoners create is warped, savage,
and pervasive, and it is no fun to be at the bottom of it.In outline, it was the same at the schools I went to. The most
important thing was to stay on the premises. While there, the
authorities fed you, prevented overt violence, and made some effort
to teach you something. But beyond that they didn't want to have
too much to do with the kids. Like prison wardens, the teachers
mostly left us to ourselves. And, like prisoners, the culture we
created was barbaric.
Why is the real world more hospitable to nerds? It might seem that
the answer is simply that it's populated by adults, who are too
mature to pick on one another. But I don't think this is true.
Adults in prison certainly pick on one another. And so, apparently,
do society wives; in some parts of Manhattan, life for women sounds
like a continuation of high school, with all the same petty intrigues.I think the important thing about the real world is not that it's
populated by adults, but that it's very large, and the things you
do have real effects. That's what school, prison, and ladies-who-lunch
all lack. The inhabitants of all those worlds are trapped in little
bubbles where nothing they do can have more than a local effect.
Naturally these societies degenerate into savagery. They have no
function for their form to follow.When the things you do have real effects, it's no longer enough
just to be pleasing. It starts to be important to get the right
answers, and that's where nerds show to advantage. Bill Gates will
of course come to mind. Though notoriously lacking in social skills,
he gets the right answers, at least as measured in revenue.The other thing that's different about the real world is that it's
much larger. In a large enough pool, even the smallest minorities
can achieve a critical mass if they clump together. Out in the real
world, nerds collect in certain places and form their own societies
where intelligence is the most important thing. Sometimes the current
even starts to flow in the other direction: sometimes, particularly
in university math and science departments, nerds deliberately
exaggerate their awkwardness in order to seem smarter. John Nash
so admired Norbert Wiener that he adopted his habit of touching the
wall as he walked down a corridor.
As a thirteen-year-old kid, I didn't have much more experience of
the world than what I saw immediately around me. The warped little
world we lived in was, I thought, the world. The world seemed cruel
and boring, and I'm not sure which was worse.Because I didn't fit into this world, I thought that something must
be wrong with me. I didn't realize that the reason we nerds didn't
fit in was that in some ways
we were a step ahead. We were already thinking about
the kind of things that matter in the real world, instead of spending
all our time playing an exacting but mostly pointless game like the
others.We were a bit like an adult would be if he were thrust back into
middle school. He wouldn't know the right clothes to wear, the right
music to like, the right slang to use. He'd seem to the kids a
complete alien. The thing is, he'd know enough not to care what
they thought. We had no such confidence.A lot of people seem to think it's good for smart kids to be thrown
together with "normal" kids at this stage of their lives. Perhaps.
But in at least some cases the reason the nerds don't fit in really
is that everyone else is crazy. I remember sitting in the audience
at a "pep rally" at my high school, watching as the cheerleaders
threw an effigy of an opposing player into the audience to be torn
to pieces. I felt like an explorer witnessing some bizarre tribal
ritual.
If I could go back and give my thirteen year old self some advice,
the main thing I'd tell him would be to stick his head up and look
around. I didn't really grasp it at the time, but the whole world
we lived in was as fake as a Twinkie. Not just school, but the
entire town. Why do people move to suburbia? To have kids! So no
wonder it seemed boring and sterile. The whole place was a giant
nursery, an artificial town created explicitly for the purpose of
breeding children.Where I grew up, it felt as if there was nowhere to go, and nothing
to do. This was no accident. Suburbs are deliberately designed to
exclude the outside world, because it contains things that could
endanger children.And as for the schools, they were just holding pens within this
fake world. Officially the purpose of schools is to teach kids. In
fact their primary purpose is to keep kids locked up in one
place for a big chunk of the day so adults can get things done. And
I have no problem with this: in a specialized industrial society,
it would be a disaster to have kids running around loose.What bothers me is not that the kids are kept in prisons, but that
(a) they aren't told about it, and (b) the prisons are run mostly
by the inmates. Kids are sent off to spend six years memorizing
meaningless facts in a world ruled by a caste of giants who run
after an oblong brown ball, as if this were the most natural thing
in the world. And if they balk at this surreal cocktail, they're
called misfits.
Life in this twisted world is stressful for the kids. And not just
for the nerds. Like any war, it's damaging even to the winners.Adults can't avoid seeing that teenage kids are tormented. So why
don't they do something about it? Because they blame it on puberty.
The reason kids are so unhappy, adults tell themselves, is that
monstrous new chemicals, hormones, are now coursing through their
bloodstream and messing up everything. There's nothing wrong with
the system; it's just inevitable that kids will be miserable at
that age.This idea is so pervasive that even the kids believe it, which
probably doesn't help. Someone who thinks his feet naturally hurt
is not going to stop to consider the possibility that he is wearing
the wrong size shoes.I'm suspicious of this theory that thirteen-year-old kids are
intrinsically messed up. If it's physiological, it should be
universal. Are Mongol nomads all nihilists at thirteen? I've read
a lot of history, and I have not seen a single reference
to this supposedly universal fact before the twentieth century.
Teenage apprentices in the Renaissance seem to have been cheerful
and eager. They got in fights and played tricks on one another of
course (Michelangelo had his nose broken by a bully), but they
weren't crazy.As far as I can tell, the concept of the hormone-crazed teenager
is coeval with suburbia. I don't think this is a coincidence. I
think teenagers are driven crazy by the life they're made to lead.
Teenage apprentices in the Renaissance were working dogs. Teenagers
now are neurotic lapdogs. Their craziness is the craziness of the
idle everywhere.
When I was in school, suicide was a constant topic among the smarter
kids. No one I knew did it, but several planned to, and
some may have tried. Mostly this was just a pose. Like other
teenagers, we loved the dramatic, and suicide seemed very dramatic.
But partly it was because our lives were at times genuinely miserable.Bullying was only part of the problem. Another problem, and possibly
an even worse one, was that we never had anything real to work on.
Humans like to work; in most of the world, your work is your identity.
And all the work we did was 
pointless, or seemed so at the time.At best it was practice for real work we might do far in the future,
so far that we didn't even know at the time what we were practicing
for. More often it was just an arbitrary series of hoops to jump
through, words without content designed mainly for testability.
(The three main causes of the Civil War were....
Test: List the three main causes of the Civil War.)And there was no way to opt out. The adults had agreed among
themselves that this was to be the route to college. The only way
to escape this empty life was to submit to it.
Teenage kids used to have a more active role in society. In
pre-industrial times, they were all apprentices of one sort or
another, whether in shops or on farms or even on warships. They
weren't left to create their own societies. They were junior members
of adult societies.Teenagers seem to have respected adults more then, because
the adults were the visible experts in the skills they were trying
to learn. Now most kids have little idea what their parents do in
their distant offices, and see no connection (indeed, there is
precious little) between schoolwork and the work they'll do as
adults.And if teenagers respected adults more, adults also had more use
for teenagers. After a couple years' training, an apprentice could
be a real help. Even the newest apprentice could be made to carry
messages or sweep the workshop.Now adults have no immediate use for teenagers. They would be in
the way in an office. So they drop them off at school on their way
to work, much as they might drop the dog off at a kennel if they  
were going away for the weekend.What happened? We're up against a hard one here. The cause of this
problem is the same as the cause of so many present ills: specialization.
As jobs become more specialized, we have to train longer for them.
Kids in pre-industrial times started working at about 14 at
the latest; kids on farms, where most people lived, began far  
earlier. Now kids who go to college don't start working full-time 
till 21 or 22. With some degrees, like MDs and PhDs, you may not
finish your training till 30.Teenagers now are useless, except as cheap labor in industries like
fast food, which evolved to exploit precisely this fact. In almost
any other kind of work, they'd be a net loss. But they're also too 
young to be left unsupervised. Someone has to watch over them, and
the most efficient way to do this is to collect them together in
one place. Then a few adults can watch all of them.If you stop there, what you're describing is literally a prison,
albeit a part-time one. The problem is, many schools practically
do stop there. The stated purpose of schools is to educate the kids.
But there is no external pressure to do this well. And so most
schools do such a bad job of teaching that the kids don't really
take it seriously-- not even the smart kids. Much of the time we
were all, students and teachers both, just going through the motions.In my high school French class we were supposed to read Hugo's Les
Miserables. I don't think any of us knew French well enough to make
our way through this enormous book. Like the rest of the class, I   
just skimmed the Cliff's Notes. When we were given a test on the
book, I noticed that the questions sounded odd. They were full of   
long words that our teacher wouldn't have used. Where had these   
questions come from? From the Cliff's Notes, it turned out. The 
teacher was using them too. We were all just pretending.There are certainly great public school teachers.  The energy and 
imagination of my fourth grade teacher, Mr. Mihalko, made that  
year something his students still talk about, thirty years later.
But teachers like him were individuals swimming
upstream. They couldn't fix the system.
In almost any group of people you'll find hierarchy.
When groups of adults form in the real world, it's generally for  
some common purpose, and the leaders end up being those who are best
at it. The problem with most schools is, they have no purpose. 
But hierarchy there must be.
And so the kids make one out of nothing.We have a phrase to describe what happens when rankings have to be
created without any meaningful criteria. We say that the situation
degenerates into a popularity contest. And that's exactly what
happens in most American schools.
Instead of depending on some real test, one's rank
depends mostly on one's ability to increase one's rank. It's
like the court of Louis XIV. There is no external opponent, so the
kids become one another's opponents.When there is some real external test of skill, it isn't painful
to be at the bottom of the hierarchy. A rookie on a football team
doesn't resent the skill of the veteran; he hopes to be like him
one day and is happy to have the chance to learn from him.
The veteran may in turn feel a sense of
noblesse oblige.
And most importantly, their status depends on how well they
do against opponents, not on whether they can push the other down.Court hierarchies are another thing entirely. This type of society
debases anyone who enters it. There is neither admiration at the 
bottom, nor noblesse oblige at the top. It's kill or be killed.This is the sort of society that gets created
in American
secondary schools. And it happens because these schools have no
real purpose beyond keeping the kids all in one place for a certain
number of hours each day. What I didn't realize at the time, and
in fact didn't realize till very recently, is that the twin horrors
of school life, the cruelty and the boredom, both have the same  
cause.
The mediocrity of American public schools has worse consequences
than just making kids unhappy for six years. It breeds a rebelliousness
that actively drives kids away from the things they're supposed to
be learning.Like many nerds, probably, it was years after high school before I
could bring myself to read anything we'd been assigned then.
And I lost more than books. I mistrusted words like "character" and   
"integrity" because they had been so debased by adults. As they
were used then, these words all seemed to mean the same thing:
obedience. The kids who got praised for these qualities tended to 
be at best dull-witted prize bulls, and at worst facile schmoozers.
If that was what character and integrity were, I wanted no part of
them.The word I most misunderstood was "tact." As used by adults, it
seemed to mean keeping your mouth shut.
I assumed it was derived from the same root as
"tacit" and "taciturn," and that it literally meant being quiet. I
vowed that I would never be tactful; they were never going to shut
me up. In fact, it's derived from the same root as "tactile," and
what it means is to have a deft touch. Tactful is the opposite of
clumsy. I don't think I learned this until college.Nerds aren't the only losers in the popularity rat race. Nerds are
unpopular because they're distracted. There are other kids who
deliberately opt out because they're so disgusted with the whole  
process.Teenage kids, even rebels, don't like to be alone, so when kids opt
out of the system, they tend to do it as a group. At the schools I
went to, the focus of rebellion was drug use, specifically marijuana.
The kids in this tribe wore black concert t-shirts and were called
"freaks."Freaks and nerds were allies, and there was a good deal of overlap
between them. Freaks were on the whole smarter than other kids,
though never studying (or at least never appearing to) was an   
important tribal value. I was more in the nerd camp, but I was
friends with a lot of freaks.They used drugs, at least at first, for the social bonds they
created. It was something to do together, and because the drugs 
were illegal, it was a shared badge of rebellion.I'm not claiming that bad schools are the whole reason kids get
into trouble with drugs. After a while, drugs have their own momentum.
No doubt some of the freaks ultimately used drugs to escape from  
other problems-- trouble at home, for example. But, in my school
at least, the reason most kids started using drugs was rebellion.
Fourteen-year-olds didn't start smoking pot because they'd heard
it would help them forget their problems. They started because they
wanted to join a different tribe.Misrule breeds rebellion; this is not a new idea. And yet the
authorities still for the most part act as if drugs were themselves
the cause of the problem.
The real problem is the emptiness of school life. We won't see
solutions till adults realize that. The adults who
may realize it first are the ones who were themselves nerds in  
school. Do you want your kids to be as unhappy in eighth grade as
you were? I wouldn't. Well, then, is there anything we can do to
fix things? Almost certainly. There is nothing inevitable about the
current system. It has come about mostly by default.Adults, though, are busy. Showing up for school plays is one thing.
Taking on the educational bureaucracy is another. Perhaps a few
will have the energy to try to change things. I suspect the hardest  
part is realizing that you can.Nerds still in school should not hold their breath. Maybe one day
a heavily armed force of adults will show up in helicopters to      
rescue you, but they probably won't be coming this month. Any     
immediate improvement in nerds' lives is probably going to have to
come from the nerds themselves.Merely understanding the situation they're in should make it less 
painful. Nerds aren't losers. They're just playing a different game,
and a game much closer to the one played in the real world. Adults
know this. It's hard to find successful adults now who don't claim
to have been nerds in high school.It's important for nerds to realize, too, that school is not life.
School is a strange, artificial thing, half sterile and half feral.
It's all-encompassing, like life, but it isn't the real thing. It's
only temporary, and if you look, you can see beyond it even while
you're still in it.If life seems awful to kids, it's neither because hormones are 
turning you all into monsters (as your parents believe), nor because
life actually is awful (as you believe). It's because the adults,
who no longer have any economic use for you, have abandoned you to
spend years cooped up together with nothing real to do.  Any society
of that type is awful to live in.
You don't have
to look any further to explain why teenage kids are unhappy.I've said some harsh things in this essay, but really the thesis
is an optimistic one-- that several problems we take for granted
are in fact not insoluble after all. Teenage kids are not inherently
unhappy monsters. That should be encouraging news to kids and adults
both.Thanks to Sarah Harlin, Trevor Blackwell, Robert Morris,
Eric Raymond, and Jackie Weicker for reading drafts of this essay,
and Maria Daniels for scanning photos.Re: Why Nerds are UnpopularGateway High School, 1981Japanese TranslationFrench TranslationMy War With BrianButtonsPortuguese TranslationSpanish Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

January 2003(This article was given as a talk at the 2003 Spam Conference.
It describes the work I've done to improve the performance of
the algorithm described in A Plan for Spam,
and what I plan to do in the future.)The first discovery I'd like to present here is an algorithm for
lazy evaluation of research papers.  Just
write whatever you want and don't cite any previous work, and
indignant readers will send you references to all the papers you
should have cited.   I discovered this algorithm
after ``A Plan for Spam'' [1] was on Slashdot.Spam filtering is a subset of text classification,
which is a well established field, but the first papers about
Bayesian
spam filtering per se seem to have been two
given at the same conference in 1998,
one by Pantel and Lin [2],
and another by a group from
Microsoft Research [3].When I heard about this work I was a bit surprised.  If
people had been onto Bayesian filtering four years ago,
why wasn't everyone using it?
When I read the papers I found out why.  Pantel and Lin's filter was the
more effective of the two, but it
only caught 92% of spam, with 1.16% false positives.When I tried writing a Bayesian spam filter,
it caught 99.5% of spam with less than .03% false
positives [4].
It's always alarming when two people
trying the same experiment get widely divergent results.
It's especially alarming here because those two sets of numbers
might yield opposite conclusions.
Different users have different requirements, but I think for
many people a filtering rate of 92% with 1.16% false positives means
that filtering is not an acceptable solution, whereas
99.5% with less than .03% false positives means that it is.So why did we get such different numbers?
I haven't tried to reproduce Pantel and Lin's results, but
from reading the paper I see five things that probably account
for the difference.One is simply that they trained their filter on very little
data: 160 spam and 466 nonspam mails.
Filter performance should still be climbing with data
sets that small.  So their numbers may not even be an accurate
measure of the performance of their algorithm, let alone of
Bayesian spam filtering in general.But I think the most important difference is probably
that they ignored message headers.  To anyone who has worked
on spam filters, this will seem a perverse decision.
And yet in the very first filters I tried writing, I ignored the
headers too.  Why?  Because I wanted to keep the problem neat.
I didn't know much about mail headers then, and they seemed to me
full of random stuff.  There is a lesson here for filter
writers: don't ignore data.  You'd think this lesson would
be too obvious to mention, but I've had to learn it several times.Third, Pantel and Lin stemmed the tokens, meaning they reduced e.g. both
``mailing'' and ``mailed'' to the root ``mail''.   They may
have felt they were forced to do this by the small size
of their corpus, but if so this is a kind of premature 
optimization.Fourth, they calculated probabilities differently.
They used all the tokens, whereas I only
use the 15 most significant.  If you use all the tokens
you'll tend to miss longer spams, the type where someone tells you their life
story up to the point where they got rich from some multilevel
marketing scheme.  And such an algorithm
would be easy for spammers to spoof: just add a big
chunk of random text to counterbalance the spam terms.Finally, they didn't bias against false positives.
I think
any spam filtering algorithm ought to have a convenient
knob you can twist to decrease the
false positive rate at the expense of the filtering rate.
I do this by counting the occurrences
of tokens in the nonspam corpus double.  
I don't think it's a good idea to treat spam filtering as
a straight text classification problem.  You can use
text classification techniques, but solutions can and should
reflect the fact that the text is email, and spam
in particular.  Email is not just text; it has structure.
Spam filtering is not just classification, because
false positives are so much worse than false negatives
that you should treat them as a different kind of error.
And the source of error is not just random variation, but
a live human spammer working actively to defeat your filter.TokensAnother project I heard about
after the Slashdot article was Bill Yerazunis' 
CRM114 [5].
This is the counterexample to the design principle I
just mentioned.  It's a straight text classifier,
but such a stunningly effective one that it manages to filter
spam almost perfectly without even knowing that's
what it's doing.Once I understood how CRM114 worked, it seemed
inevitable that I would eventually have to move from filtering based
on single words to an approach like this.  But first, I thought,
I'll see how far I can get with single words.  And the answer is,
surprisingly far.Mostly I've been working on smarter tokenization.  On
current spam, I've been able to achieve filtering rates that
approach CRM114's.  These techniques are mostly orthogonal to Bill's;
an optimal solution might incorporate both.``A Plan for Spam'' uses a very simple
definition of a token.  Letters, digits, dashes, apostrophes,
and dollar signs are constituent characters, and everything
else is a token separator.  I also ignored case.Now I have a more complicated definition of a token:
 Case is preserved. Exclamation points are constituent characters. Periods and commas are constituents if they occur
 between two digits.  This lets me get ip addresses
 and prices intact. A price range like $20-25 yields two tokens,
 $20 and $25. Tokens that occur within the
 To, From, Subject, and Return-Path lines, or within urls,
 get marked accordingly.  E.g. ``foo'' in the Subject line
 becomes ``Subject*foo''.  (The asterisk could
 be any character you don't allow as a constituent.)

Such measures increase the filter's vocabulary, which
makes it more discriminating.  For example, in the current
filter, ``free'' in the Subject line
has a spam probability of 98%, whereas the same token
in the body has a spam probability of only 65%.Here are some of the current probabilities [6]:
Subject*FREE      0.9999
free!!            0.9999
To*free           0.9998
Subject*free      0.9782
free!             0.9199
Free              0.9198
Url*free          0.9091
FREE              0.8747
From*free         0.7636
free              0.6546

In the Plan for Spam filter, all these tokens would have had the
same probability, .7602.  That filter recognized about 23,000
tokens.  The current one recognizes about 187,000.The disadvantage of having a larger universe of tokens
is that there is more
chance of misses.
Spreading your corpus out over more tokens
has the same effect as making it smaller.
If you consider exclamation points as
constituents, for example, then you could end up
not having a spam probability for free with seven exclamation
points, even though you know that free with just two   
exclamation points has a probability of 99.99%.One solution to this is what I call degeneration.  If you
can't find an exact match for a token,
treat it as if it were a less specific
version.  I consider terminal exclamation
points, uppercase letters, and occurring in one of the
five marked contexts as making a token more specific.
For example, if I don't find a probability for
``Subject*free!'', I look for probabilities for
``Subject*free'', ``free!'', and ``free'', and take whichever one
is farthest from .5.Here are the alternatives [7]
considered if the filter sees ``FREE!!!'' in the
Subject line and doesn't have a probability for it.
Subject*Free!!!
Subject*free!!!
Subject*FREE!
Subject*Free!
Subject*free!
Subject*FREE
Subject*Free
Subject*free
FREE!!!
Free!!!
free!!!
FREE!
Free!
free!
FREE
Free
free              

If you do this, be sure to consider versions with initial
caps as well as all uppercase and all lowercase.  Spams
tend to have more sentences in imperative mood, and in
those the first word is a verb.  So verbs with initial caps
have higher spam probabilities than they would in all 
lowercase.  In my filter, the spam probability of ``Act''
is 98% and for ``act'' only 62%.If you increase your filter's vocabulary, you can end up
counting the same word multiple times, according to your old
definition of ``same''.
Logically, they're not the
same token anymore.  But if this still bothers you, let
me add from experience that the words you seem to be
counting multiple times tend to be exactly the ones you'd
want to.Another effect of a larger vocabulary is that when you
look at an incoming mail you find more interesting tokens,
meaning those with probabilities far from .5.  I use the
15 most interesting to decide if mail is spam.
But you can run into a problem when you use a fixed number
like this.  If you find a lot of maximally interesting tokens,
the result can end up being decided by whatever random factor
determines the ordering of equally interesting tokens.
One way to deal with this is to treat some
as more interesting than others.For example, the
token ``dalco'' occurs 3 times in my spam corpus and never
in my legitimate corpus.  The token ``Url*optmails''
(meaning ``optmails'' within a url) occurs 1223 times.
And yet, as I used to calculate probabilities for tokens,
both would have the same spam probability, the threshold of .99.That doesn't feel right.  There are theoretical
arguments for giving these two tokens substantially different
probabilities (Pantel and Lin do), but I haven't tried that yet.
It does seem at least that if we find more than 15 tokens
that only occur in one corpus or the other, we ought to
give priority to the ones that occur a lot.  So now
there are two threshold values.  For tokens that occur only
in the spam corpus, the probability is .9999 if they
occur more than 10 times and .9998 otherwise.  Ditto
at the other end of the scale for tokens found
only in the legitimate corpus.I may later scale token probabilities substantially,
but this tiny amount of scaling at least ensures that 
tokens get sorted the right way.Another possibility would be to consider not
just 15 tokens, but all the tokens over a certain
threshold of interestingness.  Steven Hauser does this
in his statistical spam filter [8].
If you use a threshold, make it very high, or
spammers could spoof you by packing messages with
more innocent words.Finally, what should one do
about html?  I've tried the whole spectrum of options, from
ignoring it to parsing it all.  Ignoring html is a bad idea,
because it's full of useful spam signs.  But if you parse 
it all, your filter might degenerate into a mere html   
recognizer.  The most effective approach
seems to be the middle course, to notice some tokens but not
others.  I look at a, img, and font tags, and ignore the
rest.  Links and images you should certainly look at, because
they contain urls.I could probably be smarter about dealing with html, but I
don't think it's worth putting a lot of time into this.
Spams full of html are easy to filter.  The smarter
spammers already avoid it.  So
performance in the future should not depend much on how
you deal with html.PerformanceBetween December 10 2002 and January 10 2003 I got about
1750 spams.  
Of these, 4 got through.  That's a filtering
rate of about 99.75%.Two of the four spams I missed got through because they
happened to use words that occur often in my legitimate
email.The third was one of those that exploit
an insecure cgi script to send mail to third parties.
They're hard to filter based just
on the content because the headers are innocent and   
they're careful about the words they use.  Even so I can
usually catch them.  This one squeaked by with a
probability of .88, just under the threshold of .9.Of course, looking at multiple token sequences
would catch it easily.  ``Below is the result of
your feedback form'' is an instant giveaway.The fourth spam was what I call
a spam-of-the-future, because this is what I expect spam to
evolve into: some completely neutral
text followed by a url.  In this case it was was from
someone saying they had finally finished their homepage
and would I go look at it.  (The page was of course an    
ad for a porn site.)If the spammers are careful about the headers and use a
fresh url, there is nothing in spam-of-the-future for filters
to notice.  We can of course counter by sending a
crawler to look at the page.  But that might not be necessary.
The response rate for spam-of-the-future must
be low, or everyone would be doing it.
If it's low enough,
it won't pay for spammers to send it, and we won't 
have to work too hard on filtering it.Now for the really shocking news: during that same one-month
period I got three false positives.In a way it's
a relief to get some false positives.  When I wrote ``A Plan
for Spam'' I hadn't had any, and I didn't know what they'd
be like.  Now that I've had a few, I'm relieved to find
they're not as bad as I feared.
False positives yielded by statistical
filters turn out to be mails that sound a lot like spam, and
these tend to be the ones you would least mind missing [9].Two of the false positives were newsletters
from companies I've bought things from.  I never
asked to receive them, so arguably they
were spams, but I count them as false positives because
I hadn't been deleting them as spams before.  The reason
the filters caught them was that both companies in   
January switched to commercial email senders
instead of sending the mails from their own servers,  
and both the headers and the bodies became much spammier.The third false positive was a bad one, though.  It was 
from someone in Egypt and written in all uppercase.  This was
a direct result of making tokens case sensitive; the Plan
for Spam filter wouldn't have caught it.It's hard to say what the overall false positive rate is,
because we're up in the noise, statistically.
Anyone who has worked on filters (at least, effective filters) will
be aware of this problem.
With some emails it's
hard to say whether they're spam or not, and these are
the ones you end up looking at when you get filters       
really tight.  For example, so far the filter has
caught two emails that were sent to my address because
of a typo, and one sent to me in the belief that I was 
someone else.  Arguably, these are neither my spam
nor my nonspam mail.Another false positive was from a vice president at Virtumundo.
I wrote to them pretending to be a customer,
and since the reply came back through Virtumundo's 
mail servers it had the most incriminating
headers imaginable.  Arguably this isn't a real false
positive either, but a sort of Heisenberg uncertainty
effect: I only got it because I was writing about spam  
filtering.Not counting these, I've had a total of five false positives
so far, out of about 7740 legitimate emails, a rate of .06%.
The other two were a notice that something I bought
was back-ordered, and a party reminder from Evite.I don't think this number can be trusted, partly
because the sample is so small, and partly because
I think I can fix the filter not to catch
some of these.False positives seem to me a different kind of error from
false negatives.
Filtering rate is a measure of performance.  False
positives I consider more like bugs.  I approach improving the
filtering rate as optimization, and decreasing false
positives as debugging.So these five false positives are my bug list.  For example, 
the mail from Egypt got nailed because the uppercase text
made it look to the filter like a Nigerian spam.
This really is kind of a bug.  As with
html, the email being all uppercase is really conceptually one
feature, not one for each word.  I need to handle case in a
more sophisticated way.So what to make of this .06%?  Not much, I think.  You could
treat it as an upper bound, bearing in mind the small sample size.
But at this stage it is more a measure of the bugs
in my implementation than some intrinsic false positive rate
of Bayesian filtering.FutureWhat next?  Filtering is an optimization problem,
and the key to optimization is profiling.  Don't
try to guess where your code is slow, because you'll
guess wrong.  Look at where your code is slow,
and fix that.  In filtering, this translates to:   
look at the spams you miss, and figure out what you
could have done to catch them.For example, spammers are now working aggressively to   
evade filters, and one of the things they're doing is
breaking up and misspelling words to prevent filters from
recognizing them.  But working on this is not my first
priority, because I still have no trouble catching these
spams [10].There are two kinds of spams I currently do
have trouble with.
One is the type that pretends to be an email from 
a woman inviting you to go chat with her or see her profile on a dating
site.  These get through because they're the one type of
sales pitch you can make without using sales talk.  They use
the same vocabulary as ordinary email.The other kind of spams I have trouble filtering are those
from companies in e.g. Bulgaria offering contract programming 
services.   These get through because I'm a programmer too, and
the spams are full of the same words as my real mail.I'll probably focus on the personal ad type first.  I think if
I look closer I'll be able to find statistical differences
between these and my real mail.  The style of writing is
certainly different, though it may take multiword filtering
to catch that.
Also, I notice they tend to repeat the url,
and someone including a url in a legitimate mail wouldn't do that [11].The outsourcing type are going to be hard to catch.  Even if 
you sent a crawler to the site, you wouldn't find a smoking
statistical gun.
Maybe the only answer is a central list of
domains advertised in spams [12].  But there can't be that
many of this type of mail.  If the only
spams left were unsolicited offers of contract programming
services from Bulgaria, we could all probably move on to
working on something else.Will statistical filtering actually get us to that point?
I don't know.  Right now, for me personally, spam is
not a problem.  But spammers haven't yet made a serious
effort to spoof statistical filters.  What will happen when they do?I'm not optimistic about filters that work at the
network level [13].
When there is a static obstacle worth getting past, spammers
are pretty efficient at getting past it.  There
is already a company called Assurance Systems that will
run your mail through Spamassassin and tell you whether 
it will get filtered out.Network-level filters won't be completely useless.
They may be enough to kill all the "opt-in"
spam, meaning spam from companies like Virtumundo and
Equalamail who claim that they're really running opt-in lists.
You can filter those based just on the headers, no
matter what they say in the body.  But anyone willing to
falsify headers or use open relays, presumably including
most porn spammers, should be able to get some message past
network-level filters if they want to.  (By no means the
message they'd like to send though, which is something.)The kind of filters I'm optimistic about are ones that
calculate probabilities based on each individual user's mail.
These can be much more effective, not only in
avoiding false positives, but in filtering too: for example,
finding the recipient's email address base-64 encoded anywhere in
a message is a very good spam indicator.But the real advantage of individual filters is that they'll all be
different.  If everyone's filters have different probabilities,
it will make the spammers' optimization loop, what programmers
would call their edit-compile-test cycle, appallingly slow.  
Instead of just tweaking a spam till it gets through a copy of
some filter they have on their desktop, they'll have to do a
test mailing for each tweak.  It would be like programming in
a language without an interactive toplevel, 
and I wouldn't wish that
on anyone.Notes[1]
Paul Graham.  ``A Plan for Spam.'' August 2002.
http://paulgraham.com/spam.html.Probabilities in this algorithm are
calculated using a degenerate case of Bayes' Rule.  There are
two simplifying assumptions: that the probabilities
of features (i.e. words) are independent, and that we know
nothing about the prior probability of an email being
spam.The first assumption is widespread in text classification.
Algorithms that use it are called ``naive Bayesian.''The second assumption I made because the proportion of spam in
my incoming mail fluctuated so much from day to day (indeed,
from hour to hour) that the overall prior ratio seemed
worthless as a predictor.  If you assume that P(spam) and
P(nonspam) are both .5, they cancel out and you can
remove them from the formula.If you were doing Bayesian filtering in a situation where  
the ratio of spam to nonspam was consistently very high or
(especially) very low, you could probably improve filter
performance by incorporating prior probabilities.  To do
this right you'd have to track ratios by time of day, because
spam and legitimate mail volume both have distinct daily
patterns.[2]
Patrick Pantel and Dekang Lin. ``SpamCop-- A Spam
Classification & Organization Program.''  Proceedings of AAAI-98
Workshop on Learning for Text Categorization.[3]
Mehran Sahami, Susan Dumais, David Heckerman and Eric Horvitz.
``A Bayesian Approach to Filtering Junk E-Mail.'' Proceedings of AAAI-98
Workshop on Learning for Text Categorization.[4] At the time I had zero false positives out of about 4,000 
legitimate emails.  If the next legitimate email was
a false positive, this would give us .03%.  These false positive
rates are untrustworthy, as I explain later. I quote
a number here only to emphasize that whatever the false positive rate
is, it is less than 1.16%.
[5] Bill Yerazunis. ``Sparse Binary Polynomial Hash Message
Filtering and The CRM114 Discriminator.''  Proceedings of 2003
Spam Conference.[6] In ``A Plan for Spam'' I used thresholds of .99 and .01.
It seems justifiable to use thresholds proportionate to the
size of the corpora.  Since I now have on the order of 10,000 of each
type of mail, I use .9999 and .0001.[7] There is a flaw here I should probably fix.  Currently,
when ``Subject*foo'' degenerates to just ``foo'', what that means is
you're getting the stats for occurrences of ``foo'' in
the body or header lines other than those I mark.
What I should do is keep track of statistics for ``foo''
overall as well as specific versions, and degenerate from
``Subject*foo'' not to ``foo'' but to ``Anywhere*foo''.  Ditto for
case: I should degenerate from uppercase to any-case, not
lowercase.It would probably be a win to do this with prices
too, e.g. to degenerate from ``$129.99'' to ``$--9.99'', ``$--.99'',
and ``$--''.You could also degenerate from words to their stems,
but this would probably only improve filtering rates early on 
when you had small corpora.[8] Steven Hauser.  ``Statistical Spam Filter Works for Me.''
http://www.sofbot.com.[9] False positives are not all equal, and we should remember
this when comparing techniques for stopping spam.
Whereas many of the false positives caused by filters
will be near-spams that you wouldn't mind missing,
false positives caused by blacklists, for example, will be just
mail from people who chose the wrong ISP.  In both
cases you catch mail that's near spam, but for blacklists nearness
is physical, and for filters it's textual.
[10] If spammers get good enough at obscuring tokens   
for this to be a problem, we can respond by simply removing
whitespace, periods, commas, etc.  and using a dictionary to
pick the words out of the resulting sequence.
And of course finding words this way that weren't visible in
the original text would in itself be evidence of spam.Picking out the words won't be trivial.  It will require 
more than just reconstructing word boundaries; spammers
both add (``xHot nPorn cSite'') and omit (``P#rn'') letters.
Vision research may be useful here, since human vision is
the limit that such tricks will approach.[11] 
In general, spams are more repetitive than regular email.   
They want to pound that message home.  I currently don't
allow duplicates in the top 15 tokens, because
you could get a false positive if the sender happens to use
some bad word multiple times. (In my current filter, ``dick'' has
a spam probabilty of .9999, but it's also a name.)
It seems we should at least notice duplication though,
so I may try allowing up to two of each token, as Brian Burton does in
SpamProbe.[12]  This is what approaches like Brightmail's will
degenerate into once spammers are pushed into using mad-lib
techniques to generate everything else in the message.[13]
It's sometimes argued that we should be working on filtering
at the network level, because it is more efficient.  What people
usually mean when they say this is: we currently filter at the
network level, and we don't want to start over from scratch.
But you can't dictate the problem to fit your solution.Historically, scarce-resource arguments have been the losing
side in debates about software design.
People only tend to use them to justify choices
(inaction in particular) made for other reasons.Thanks to Sarah Harlin, Trevor Blackwell, and
Dan Giffin for reading drafts of this paper, and to Dan again
for most of the infrastructure that this filter runs on.Related:A Plan for SpamPlan for Spam FAQ2003 Spam Conference ProceedingsJapanese TranslationChinese TranslationTest of These Suggestions

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

January 2003(This article is derived from a keynote talk at the fall 2002 meeting
of NEPLS.)Visitors to this country are often surprised to find that
Americans like to begin a conversation by asking "what do you do?"
I've never liked this question.  I've rarely had a
neat answer to it.  But I think I have finally solved the problem.
Now, when someone asks me what I do, I look them straight
in the eye and say "I'm designing a 
new dialect of Lisp."   
I recommend this answer to anyone who doesn't like being asked what
they do.  The conversation will turn immediately to other topics.I don't consider myself to be doing research on programming languages.
I'm just designing one, in the same way that someone might design
a building or a chair or a new typeface.
I'm not trying to discover anything new.  I just want
to make a language that will be good to program in.  In some ways,
this assumption makes life a lot easier.The difference between design and research seems to be a question
of new versus good.  Design doesn't have to be new, but it has to  
be good.  Research doesn't have to be good, but it has to be new.
I think these two paths converge at the top: the best design
surpasses its predecessors by using new ideas, and the best research
solves problems that are not only new, but actually worth solving.
So ultimately we're aiming for the same destination, just approaching
it from different directions.What I'm going to talk about today is what your target looks like
from the back.  What do you do differently when you treat
programming languages as a design problem instead of a research topic?The biggest difference is that you focus more on the user.
Design begins by asking, who is this
for and what do they need from it?  A good architect,
for example, does not begin by creating a design that he then
imposes on the users, but by studying the intended users and figuring
out what they need.Notice I said "what they need," not "what they want."  I don't mean
to give the impression that working as a designer means working as 
a sort of short-order cook, making whatever the client tells you
to.  This varies from field to field in the arts, but
I don't think there is any field in which the best work is done by
the people who just make exactly what the customers tell them to.The customer is always right in
the sense that the measure of good design is how well it works
for the user.  If you make a novel that bores everyone, or a chair
that's horribly uncomfortable to sit in, then you've done a bad
job, period.  It's no defense to say that the novel or the chair  
is designed according to the most advanced theoretical principles.And yet, making what works for the user doesn't mean simply making
what the user tells you to.  Users don't know what all the choices
are, and are often mistaken about what they really want.The answer to the paradox, I think, is that you have to design
for the user, but you have to design what the user needs, not simply  
what he says he wants.
It's much like being a doctor.  You can't just treat a patient's
symptoms.  When a patient tells you his symptoms, you have to figure
out what's actually wrong with him, and treat that.This focus on the user is a kind of axiom from which most of the
practice of good design can be derived, and around which most design
issues center.If good design must do what the user needs, who is the user?  When
I say that design must be for users, I don't mean to imply that good 
design aims at some kind of  
lowest common denominator.  You can pick any group of users you
want.  If you're designing a tool, for example, you can design it
for anyone from beginners to experts, and what's good design
for one group might be bad for another.  The point
is, you have to pick some group of users.  I don't think you can
even talk about good or bad design except with
reference to some intended user.You're most likely to get good design if the intended users include
the designer himself.  When you design something
for a group that doesn't include you, it tends to be for people
you consider to be less sophisticated than you, not more sophisticated.That's a problem, because looking down on the user, however benevolently,
seems inevitably to corrupt the designer.
I suspect that very few housing
projects in the US were designed by architects who expected to live
in them.   You can see the same thing
in programming languages.  C, Lisp, and Smalltalk were created for
their own designers to use.  Cobol, Ada, and Java, were created   
for other people to use.If you think you're designing something for idiots, the odds are
that you're not designing something good, even for idiots.
Even if you're designing something for the most sophisticated
users, though, you're still designing for humans.  It's different 
in research.  In math you
don't choose abstractions because they're
easy for humans to understand; you choose whichever make the
proof shorter.  I think this is true for the sciences generally.
Scientific ideas are not meant to be ergonomic.Over in the arts, things are very different.  Design is
all about people.  The human body is a strange
thing, but when you're designing a chair,
that's what you're designing for, and there's no way around it.
All the arts have to pander to the interests and limitations
of humans.   In painting, for example, all other things being
equal a painting with people in it will be more interesting than
one without.  It is not merely an accident of history that
the great paintings of the Renaissance are all full of people.
If they hadn't been, painting as a medium wouldn't have the prestige
that it does.Like it or not, programming languages are also for people,
and I suspect the human brain is just as lumpy and idiosyncratic
as the human body.  Some ideas are easy for people to grasp
and some aren't.  For example, we seem to have a very limited
capacity for dealing with detail.  It's this fact that makes
programing languages a good idea in the first place; if we
could handle the detail, we could just program in machine
language.Remember, too, that languages are not
primarily a form for finished programs, but something that
programs have to be developed in.  Anyone in the arts could
tell you that you might want different mediums for the
two situations.  Marble, for example, is a nice, durable
medium for finished ideas, but a hopelessly inflexible one
for developing new ideas.A program, like a proof,
is a pruned version of a tree that in the past has had
false starts branching off all over it.  So the test of
a language is not simply how clean the finished program looks
in it, but how clean the path to the finished program was.
A design choice that gives you elegant finished programs
may not give you an elegant design process.  For example, 
I've written a few macro-defining macros full of nested
backquotes that look now like little gems, but writing them
took hours of the ugliest trial and error, and frankly, I'm still
not entirely sure they're correct.We often act as if the test of a language were how good
finished programs look in it.
It seems so convincing when you see the same program
written in two languages, and one version is much shorter.
When you approach the problem from the direction of the
arts, you're less likely to depend on this sort of
test.  You don't want to end up with a programming
language like marble.For example, it is a huge win in developing software to
have an interactive toplevel, what in Lisp is called a
read-eval-print loop.  And when you have one this has
real effects on the design of the language.  It would not
work well for a language where you have to declare
variables before using them, for example.  When you're
just typing expressions into the toplevel, you want to be 
able to set x to some value and then start doing things
to x.  You don't want to have to declare the type of x
first.  You may dispute either of the premises, but if
a language has to have a toplevel to be convenient, and
mandatory type declarations are incompatible with a
toplevel, then no language that makes type declarations  
mandatory could be convenient to program in.In practice, to get good design you have to get close, and stay
close, to your users.  You have to calibrate your ideas on actual
users constantly, especially in the beginning.  One of the reasons
Jane Austen's novels are so good is that she read them out loud to
her family.  That's why she never sinks into self-indulgently arty
descriptions of landscapes,
or pretentious philosophizing.  (The philosophy's there, but it's
woven into the story instead of being pasted onto it like a label.)
If you open an average "literary" novel and imagine reading it out loud
to your friends as something you'd written, you'll feel all too
keenly what an imposition that kind of thing is upon the reader.In the software world, this idea is known as Worse is Better.
Actually, there are several ideas mixed together in the concept of
Worse is Better, which is why people are still arguing about
whether worse
is actually better or not.  But one of the main ideas in that
mix is that if you're building something new, you should get a
prototype in front of users as soon as possible.The alternative approach might be called the Hail Mary strategy.
Instead of getting a prototype out quickly and gradually refining
it, you try to create the complete, finished, product in one long
touchdown pass.  As far as I know, this is a
recipe for disaster.  Countless startups destroyed themselves this
way during the Internet bubble.  I've never heard of a case
where it worked.What people outside the software world may not realize is that
Worse is Better is found throughout the arts.
In drawing, for example, the idea was discovered during the
Renaissance.  Now almost every drawing teacher will tell you that
the right way to get an accurate drawing is not to
work your way slowly around the contour of an object, because errors will
accumulate and you'll find at the end that the lines don't meet.
Instead you should draw a few quick lines in roughly the right place,
and then gradually refine this initial sketch.In most fields, prototypes
have traditionally been made out of different materials.
Typefaces to be cut in metal were initially designed  
with a brush on paper.  Statues to be cast in bronze   
were modelled in wax.  Patterns to be embroidered on tapestries
were drawn on paper with ink wash.  Buildings to be
constructed from stone were tested on a smaller scale in wood.What made oil paint so exciting, when it
first became popular in the fifteenth century, was that you
could actually make the finished work from the prototype.
You could make a preliminary drawing if you wanted to, but you
weren't held to it; you could work out all the details, and
even make major changes, as you finished the painting.You can do this in software too.  A prototype doesn't have to
be just a model; you can refine it into the finished product.
I think you should always do this when you can.  It lets you
take advantage of new insights you have along the way.  But
perhaps even more important, it's good for morale.Morale is key in design.  I'm surprised people
don't talk more about it.  One of my first
drawing teachers told me: if you're bored when you're
drawing something, the drawing will look boring.
For example, suppose you have to draw a building, and you
decide to draw each brick individually.  You can do this
if you want, but if you get bored halfway through and start
making the bricks mechanically instead of observing each one,   
the drawing will look worse than if you had merely suggested
the bricks.Building something by gradually refining a prototype is good
for morale because it keeps you engaged.  In software, my  
rule is: always have working code.  If you're writing
something that you'll be able to test in an hour, then you
have the prospect of an immediate reward to motivate you.
The same is true in the arts, and particularly in oil painting.
Most painters start with a blurry sketch and gradually
refine it.
If you work this way, then in principle
you never have to end the day with something that actually
looks unfinished.  Indeed, there is even a saying among
painters: "A painting is never finished, you just stop
working on it."  This idea will be familiar to anyone who
has worked on software.Morale is another reason that it's hard to design something
for an unsophisticated user.   It's hard to stay interested in
something you don't like yourself.  To make something  
good, you have to be thinking, "wow, this is really great,"
not "what a piece of shit; those fools will love it."Design means making things for humans.  But it's not just the
user who's human.  The designer is human too.Notice all this time I've been talking about "the designer."
Design usually has to be under the control of a single person to
be any good.   And yet it seems to be possible for several people
to collaborate on a research project.  This seems to
me one of the most interesting differences between research and
design.There have been famous instances of collaboration in the arts,
but most of them seem to have been cases of molecular bonding rather
than nuclear fusion.  In an opera it's common for one person to
write the libretto and another to write the music.   And during the Renaissance, 
journeymen from northern
Europe were often employed to do the landscapes in the
backgrounds of Italian paintings.  But these aren't true collaborations.
They're more like examples of Robert Frost's
"good fences make good neighbors."  You can stick instances
of good design together, but within each individual project,
one person has to be in control.I'm not saying that good design requires that one person think
of everything.  There's nothing more valuable than the advice
of someone whose judgement you trust.  But after the talking is
done, the decision about what to do has to rest with one person.Why is it that research can be done by collaborators and  
design can't?  This is an interesting question.  I don't 
know the answer.  Perhaps,
if design and research converge, the best research is also
good design, and in fact can't be done by collaborators.
A lot of the most famous scientists seem to have worked alone.
But I don't know enough to say whether there
is a pattern here.  It could be simply that many famous scientists
worked when collaboration was less common.Whatever the story is in the sciences, true collaboration
seems to be vanishingly rare in the arts.  Design by committee is a
synonym for bad design.  Why is that so?  Is there some way to
beat this limitation?I'm inclined to think there isn't-- that good design requires
a dictator.  One reason is that good design has to   
be all of a piece.  Design is not just for humans, but
for individual humans.  If a design represents an idea that  
fits in one person's head, then the idea will fit in the user's
head too.Related:Japanese TranslationTaste for MakersRomanian TranslationSpanish Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Like to build things? Try Hacker
News.


August 2002(This article describes the spam-filtering techniques
used in the spamproof web-based mail reader we
built to exercise Arc. An
improved algorithm is described in Better
Bayesian Filtering.)I think it's possible to stop spam, and that 
content-based filters are the way to do it.
The Achilles heel of the spammers is their message.
They can circumvent any other barrier you set up.  They have so far, at
least.  But they have to deliver their message, whatever it
is.  If we can write software that recognizes their messages,
there is no way they can get around that._ _ _To the recipient, spam is easily recognizable.  If you hired 
someone to read your mail and discard the spam, they would
have little trouble doing it.  How much do we have
to do, short of AI, to automate this process?I think we will be able to solve the problem with fairly
simple algorithms.  In fact, I've found that you can filter
present-day spam acceptably well using nothing more than a
Bayesian combination of the spam probabilities of individual
words.  Using a slightly tweaked (as described below) Bayesian
filter, we now miss less than 5 per 1000 spams, with 0 false positives.The statistical approach is not usually the first one people
try when they write spam filters.  Most hackers' first instinct is
to try to write software that recognizes individual properties of
spam.  You look at spams
and you think, the gall of these guys to try sending me mail 
that begins "Dear Friend" or has a subject line that's all
uppercase and ends in eight exclamation points.  I can filter
out that stuff with about one line of code.And so you do,
and in the beginning it works.  A few simple rules will take
a big bite out of your incoming spam.  Merely looking
for the word "click" will catch 79.7% of the
emails in my spam corpus, with only 1.2% false positives.I spent about six months writing software that looked for
individual spam features before I tried the statistical
approach.  What I found was that recognizing that last few
percent of spams got very hard, and that as I
made the filters stricter I got more false positives.False positives are innocent emails that get mistakenly
identified as spams.
For most users,
missing legitimate email is
an order of magnitude worse than receiving spam, so a
filter that yields false positives is like an acne cure
that carries a risk of death to the patient.The more spam a user gets, the less
likely he'll be to notice one innocent mail sitting in his
spam folder.  And strangely enough, the better your spam filters get,
the more dangerous false positives become, because when the
filters are really good, users will be more likely to
ignore everything they catch.I don't know why I avoided trying the statistical approach
for so long.  I think it was because I got addicted to
trying to identify spam features myself, as if I were playing
some kind of competitive game with the spammers.  (Nonhackers
don't often realize this, but most hackers are very competitive.)
When I did try statistical analysis, I
found immediately that it was much cleverer than I had been.
It discovered, of course, that terms like "virtumundo" and
"teens" were good indicators of spam.  But it also
discovered that "per" and "FL" and "ff0000" are good 
indicators of spam.  In fact, "ff0000" (html for bright red)
turns out to be as good an indicator of spam as any  
pornographic term._ _ _Here's a sketch of how I do statistical filtering.  I start
with one corpus of spam and one of nonspam mail.  At the
moment each one has about 4000 messages in it.  I scan
the entire text, including headers and embedded html
and javascript, of each message in each corpus.
I currently consider alphanumeric characters,
dashes, apostrophes, and dollar signs to be part of tokens,
and everything else to be a token separator.  (There is
probably room for improvement here.)  I ignore tokens that
are all digits, and I also ignore html comments, not even
considering them as token separators.I count the number
of times each token (ignoring case, currently) occurs in
each corpus.  At this stage I end up with two large hash   
tables, one for each corpus, mapping tokens to number
of occurrences.Next I create a third hash table, this time mapping
each token to the probability that an email containing it is a spam,
which I calculate as follows [1]:

(let ((g (* 2 (or (gethash word good) 0)))
      (b (or (gethash word bad) 0)))
   (unless (< (+ g b) 5)
     (max .01
          (min .99 (float (/ (min 1 (/ b nbad))
                             (+ (min 1 (/ g ngood))   
                                (min 1 (/ b nbad)))))))))

where word is the token whose probability we're
calculating, good and bad are the hash tables
I created in the first step, and ngood and nbad
are the number of nonspam and spam messages respectively.I explained this as code to show a couple of important details.
I want to bias the probabilities slightly to avoid false
positives, and by trial and error I've found that a good
way to do it is to double all the numbers in good.
This helps to distinguish between words that occasionally
do occur in legitimate email and words that almost never do. 
I only consider words that occur more than five times in
total (actually, because of the doubling, occurring three 
times in nonspam mail would be enough).  And then there is
the question of what probability to assign to words that
occur in one corpus but not the other.  Again by trial and   
error I chose .01 and .99.  There may be room for tuning
here, but as the corpus grows such tuning will happen
automatically anyway.The especially observant will notice that while I consider
each corpus to be a single long stream of text for purposes
of counting occurrences, I use the number of emails in
each, rather than their combined length, as the divisor     
in calculating spam probabilities.  This adds another
slight bias to protect against false positives.When new mail arrives, it is scanned into tokens, and
the most interesting fifteen tokens, where interesting is  
measured by how far their spam probability is from a
neutral .5, are used to calculate the probability that
the mail is spam.  If probs
is a list of the fifteen individual probabilities, you
calculate the 
combined probability thus:

(let ((prod (apply #'* probs)))
  (/ prod (+ prod (apply #'* (mapcar #'(lambda (x) 
                                         (- 1 x))
                                     probs)))))

One question that arises in
practice is what probability to assign to a word you've
never seen, i.e. one that doesn't occur in the hash table
of word probabilities.  I've found, again by trial and
error, that .4 is a good number to use.  If you've never
seen a word before, it is probably fairly innocent; spam
words tend to be all too familiar.There are examples of this algorithm being applied to
actual emails in an appendix at the end.I treat mail as spam if the algorithm above gives it a
probability of more than .9 of being spam.  But in practice
it would not matter much where I put this threshold, because
few probabilities end up in the middle of the range._ _ _One great advantage of the statistical approach is that you
don't have to read so many spams.  Over the past six months,
I've read literally thousands of spams, and it is really
kind of demoralizing.  Norbert Wiener said if you compete
with slaves you become a slave, and there is something
similarly degrading about competing with spammers.   To
recognize individual spam features you have to try to get
into the mind of the spammer, and frankly I want to spend
as little time inside the minds of spammers as possible.But the real advantage of the Bayesian approach, of course,
is that you know what
you're measuring.  Feature-recognizing filters like
SpamAssassin assign a spam "score" to email.  The Bayesian
approach assigns an actual probability.  The problem with
a "score" is that no one knows what it means.  The user
doesn't know what it means, but worse still, neither does
the developer of the filter.  How many points should an
email get for having the word "sex" in it?  A probability
can of course be mistaken, but there is little ambiguity
about what it means, or how evidence should be combined
to calculate it.  Based on my corpus, "sex" indicates
a .97 probability of the containing email being a spam,
whereas "sexy" indicates .99 probability.
And Bayes' Rule, equally unambiguous, says that an email
containing both words would, in the (unlikely)
absence of any other evidence, have a 99.97% chance of
being a spam.Because it is measuring probabilities, the Bayesian approach
considers all the evidence in the email, both good and bad.
Words that occur disproportionately rarely
in spam (like "though" or "tonight" or "apparently")
contribute as much to decreasing the probability as
bad words like "unsubscribe" and "opt-in" do to
increasing it.  So an otherwise innocent email that happens
to include the word "sex" is not going to get tagged as spam.Ideally, of course, the probabilities should be calculated
individually for each user.  I get a lot of email containing
the word "Lisp", and (so far) no spam that does.  So a word
like that is effectively a kind of password for sending
mail to me.  In my earlier spam-filtering software, the user
could set up a list of such words and mail containing
them would automatically get past the filters.  On my
list I put words like "Lisp" and also my zipcode, so
that (otherwise rather spammy-sounding) receipts from
online orders would get through.  I thought I was being
very clever, but I found that the Bayesian filter did the
same thing for me, and moreover discovered of a lot of words I
hadn't thought of.When I said at the start that our filters let through less than
5 spams per 1000 with 0 false positives, I'm talking about
filtering my mail based on a corpus of my mail.  But these
numbers are not misleading, because that is the approach I'm
advocating: filter each user's mail based on the spam and
nonspam mail he receives.  Essentially, each user should
have two delete buttons, ordinary delete and delete-as-spam.
Anything deleted as spam goes into the spam corpus,   
and everything else goes into the nonspam corpus.You could start
users with a seed filter, but ultimately each user should have
his own per-word probabilities based on the actual mail he
receives.  This (a) makes the filters more effective, (b) lets
each user decide their own precise definition of spam,
and (c) perhaps best of all makes it hard for spammers
to tune mails to get through the filters.  If a lot of the  
brain of the filter is in the individual databases, then 
merely tuning spams to get through the seed filters
won't guarantee anything about how well they'll get through
individual users' varying and much more trained filters.Content-based spam filtering is often combined with a whitelist,
a list of senders whose mail can be accepted with no filtering.
One easy way to build such a
whitelist is to keep a list of every address the user has
ever sent mail to.  If a mail reader has a delete-as-spam
button then you could also add the from address
of every email the user has deleted as ordinary trash.I'm an advocate of whitelists, but more as a way to save  
computation than as a way to improve filtering.  I used to think that
whitelists would make filtering easier, because you'd
only have to filter email from people you'd never heard
from, and someone sending you mail for the first time is
constrained by convention in what they can say to you.
Someone you already know might send you an email talking about sex,
but someone sending you mail for the first time would not   
be likely to.  The problem is, people can have more than one 
email address, so a new from-address doesn't guarantee that
the sender is writing to you for the first time.
It is not unusual
for an old friend (especially if he is a hacker) to suddenly
send you an email with a new from-address, so you can't
risk false positives by filtering mail from unknown  
addresses especially stringently.In a sense, though, my filters do themselves embody a kind
of whitelist (and blacklist) because they are based on
entire messages, including the headers.  So to that
extent they "know" the email addresses of trusted senders
and even the routes by which mail gets from them to me.   
And they know the same about spam, including the server   
names, mailer versions, and protocols._ _ _If I thought that I could keep up current rates of spam
filtering, I would consider this problem solved.  But it
doesn't mean much to be able to filter out most present-day
spam, because spam evolves.
Indeed, most 
antispam techniques so far have been like pesticides that
do nothing more than create a new, resistant strain of bugs.I'm more hopeful about Bayesian filters, because they evolve
with the spam.  So as spammers start using "c0ck"   
instead of "cock" to evade simple-minded spam filters     
based on individual words, Bayesian filters automatically
notice.  Indeed, "c0ck" is far more damning evidence than
"cock", and Bayesian filters know precisely how much more.Still, anyone who proposes a plan for spam filtering has to
be able to answer the question: if the spammers knew
exactly what you were doing,
how well could they get past you?  For example, I think that if
checksum-based spam filtering becomes a serious obstacle,
the spammers will just
switch to mad-lib techniques for generating message bodies.To beat Bayesian filters, it would not be enough for spammers
to make their emails unique or to stop using individual
naughty words.  They'd have to make their mails indistinguishable
from your ordinary mail.  And this I think would severely
constrain them.  Spam is mostly sales
pitches, so unless your regular mail is all sales pitches,
spams will inevitably have a different character.  And    
the spammers would also, of course, have to change (and keep 
changing) their whole infrastructure, because otherwise
the headers would look as bad to the Bayesian filters as ever,
no matter what they did to the message body.  I don't know
enough about the infrastructure that spammers use to know
how hard it would be to make the headers look innocent, but
my guess is that it would be even harder than making the    
message look innocent.Assuming they could solve the problem of the headers,
the spam of the future will probably look something like
this:

Hey there.  Thought you should check out the following:
http://www.27meg.com/foo

because that is about as much sales pitch as content-based
filtering will leave the spammer room to make.  (Indeed, it
will be hard even to get this past filters, because if everything
else in the email is neutral, the spam probability will hinge on
the url, and it will take some effort to make that look neutral.)Spammers range from businesses running so-called
opt-in lists who don't even try to conceal their identities,
to guys who hijack mail servers to send out spams promoting
porn sites.  If we use filtering to whittle their
options down to mails like the one above, that should
pretty much put the spammers on the "legitimate" end of
the spectrum out of business; they feel obliged
by various state laws to include boilerplate about why
their spam is not spam, and how to cancel your
"subscription,"  and that kind of text is easy to   
recognize.(I used to think it was naive to believe that stricter laws
would decrease spam.  Now I think that while stricter laws  
may not decrease the amount of spam that spammers send,
they can certainly help filters to decrease the amount of  
spam that recipients actually see.)All along the spectrum, if you restrict the sales pitches spammers
can make, you will inevitably tend to put them out of
business.  That word business is an important one to
remember.  The spammers are businessmen.  They send spam because
it works.  It works because although the response rate
is abominably low (at best 15 per million, vs 3000 per
million for a catalog mailing), the cost, to them, is  
practically nothing.  The cost is enormous for the recipients,   
about 5 man-weeks for each million recipients who spend  
a second to delete the spam, but the spammer
doesn't have to pay that.Sending spam does cost the spammer something, though. [2]
So the lower we can get the
response rate-- whether by filtering, or by using filters to force
spammers to dilute their pitches-- the fewer businesses will find it
worth their while to send spam.The reason the spammers use the kinds of 
sales
pitches that they do is to increase response rates.
This is possibly even more disgusting
than getting inside the mind of a spammer,
but let's take a quick look inside the mind of someone
who responds to a spam.  This person is either
astonishingly credulous or deeply in denial about their   
sexual interests.  In either case, repulsive or
idiotic as the spam seems to us, it is exciting
to them.  The spammers wouldn't say these things if they
didn't sound exciting.  And "thought you
should check out the following" is just not going to
have nearly the pull with the spam recipient as
the kinds of things that spammers say now.
Result: if it can't contain exciting sales pitches,
spam becomes less effective as a marketing vehicle,
and fewer businesses want to use it.That is the big win in the end.  I started writing spam
filtering software because I didn't want have to look at
the stuff anymore.
But if we get good enough at filtering
out spam, it will stop working, and the spammers
will actually stop sending it._ _ _Of all the approaches to fighting spam, from software to laws,
I believe Bayesian filtering will be the single most
effective.  But I also
think that the more different kinds of antispam efforts
we undertake, the better, because any measure that
constrains spammers will tend to make filtering easier.
And even within the world of content-based filtering, I think
it will be a good thing if there are many different kinds
of software being used simultaneously.  The more different 
filters there are, the harder it will be for
spammers to tune spams to get through them.Appendix: Examples of FilteringHere is an example of a spam that arrived while I was writing
this article.  The fifteen most interesting words in this spam are:

qvp0045
indira
mx-05
intimail
$7500
freeyankeedom
cdo
bluefoxmedia
jpg
unsecured
platinum
3d0
qves
7c5
7c266675

The words are a mix of stuff from the headers and from the
message body, which is typical of spam.  Also typical of spam
is that every one of these words has a spam probability,
in my database, of .99.  In fact there are more than fifteen words
with probabilities of .99, and these are just the first
fifteen seen.Unfortunately that makes this email a boring example of
the use of Bayes' Rule.  To see an interesting variety of
probabilities we have to look at this actually quite
atypical spam.The fifteen most interesting words in this spam, with their probabilities,
are:

madam           0.99
promotion       0.99
republic        0.99
shortest        0.047225013
mandatory       0.047225013
standardization 0.07347802
sorry           0.08221981
supported       0.09019077
people's        0.09019077
enter           0.9075001
quality         0.8921298
organization    0.12454646
investment      0.8568143
very            0.14758544
valuable        0.82347786 

This time the evidence is a mix of good and bad.  A word like  
"shortest" is almost as much evidence for innocence as a
word like "madam" or "promotion" is for guilt.  But still the
case for guilt is stronger.  If you combine these numbers
according to Bayes' Rule, the resulting probability is .9027."Madam" is obviously from spams beginning
"Dear Sir or Madam."  They're not very common, but the
word "madam" never occurs in my legitimate email, and
it's all about the ratio."Republic" scores high because
it often shows up in Nigerian scam emails, and also occurs once
or twice in spams referring to Korea and South Africa.
You might say that it's
an accident that it thus helps identify this spam.  But I've
found when examining spam probabilities that there are
a lot of these accidents, and they have an uncanny tendency to
push things in the right direction rather than the wrong one.
In this case, it is not entirely a coincidence that the word
"Republic" occurs in Nigerian scam emails and this spam.
There is a whole class of dubious business propositions involving
less developed countries, and these in turn are more likely
to have names that specify explicitly (because they aren't) that they
are republics.[3]On the other hand, "enter" is a genuine miss.  It occurs
mostly in unsubscribe instructions, but here is used in a
completely innocent way.  Fortunately the statistical approach is
fairly robust, and can tolerate quite a lot of misses
before the results start to be thrown off.For comparison, 
here is an example of that rare bird, a spam that
gets through the filters.  Why?  Because by sheer chance it happens
to be loaded with words that occur in my actual email:

perl       0.01
python     0.01
tcl        0.01
scripting  0.01
morris     0.01
graham     0.01491078
guarantee  0.9762507
cgi        0.9734398
paul       0.027040077
quite      0.030676773
pop3       0.042199217
various    0.06080265
prices     0.9359873
managed    0.06451222
difficult  0.071706355

There are a couple pieces of good news here.  First, this mail
probably wouldn't get through the filters of someone who didn't
happen to specialize in programming languages and have a good
friend called Morris.  For the average user, all the top five words here 
would be neutral and would not contribute to the spam probability.Second, I think filtering based on word pairs 
(see below) might well
catch this one:  "cost effective", "setup fee", "money back" -- pretty
incriminating stuff.  And of course if they continued to spam me
(or a network I was part of), "Hostex" itself would be
recognized as  a spam term.Finally, here is an innocent email.
Its  fifteen most interesting words are as follows:

continuation  0.01
describe      0.01
continuations 0.01
example       0.033600237
programming   0.05214485 
i'm           0.055427782
examples      0.07972858 
color         0.9189189  
localhost     0.09883721
hi            0.116539136
california    0.84421706
same          0.15981844
spot          0.1654587
us-ascii      0.16804294
what          0.19212411

Most of the words here indicate the mail is an innocent one.
There are two bad smelling words,  "color"
(spammers love colored fonts) and "California"
(which occurs in testimonials and also in menus in
forms), but they are not enough to outweigh obviously
innocent words like "continuation" and "example".It's interesting that "describe" rates as so thoroughly
innocent.  It hasn't occurred in a
single one of my 4000 spams.  The data turns out to be
full of such surprises.  One of the things you learn
when you analyze spam texts is how
narrow a subset of the language spammers operate in.  It's
that fact, together with the equally characteristic vocabulary
of any individual user's mail, that makes Bayesian filtering
a good bet.Appendix: More IdeasOne idea that I haven't tried yet is to filter based on
word pairs, or even triples, rather than individual words.
This should yield a much sharper estimate of the probability.
For example, in my current database, the word "offers"
has a probability of .96.  If you based the probabilities  
on word pairs, you'd end up with "special offers"
and "valuable offers" having probabilities of .99
and, say, "approach offers" (as in "this approach offers")
having a probability of .1 or less.The reason I haven't done this is that filtering based on
individual words already works so well.  But it does
mean that there is room to tighten the filters if spam
gets harder to detect.
(Curiously, a filter based on word pairs would be
in effect a Markov-chaining text generator running
in reverse.)Specific spam features (e.g. not seeing the recipient's
address in the to: field) do of course have value in 
recognizing spam.  They can be considered in this
algorithm by treating them as virtual words.  I'll probably
do this in future versions, at least for a handful of the
most egregious spam indicators. Feature-recognizing
spam filters are right in many details; what they lack
is an overall discipline for combining evidence.Recognizing nonspam features may be more important than
recognizing spam features.  False positives are such a
worry that they demand extraordinary measures.  I will
probably in future versions add a second level of testing
designed specifically to avoid false positives.  If a
mail triggers this second level of filters it will be accepted
even if its spam probability is above the threshold.I don't expect this second level of filtering to be Bayesian.
It will inevitably 
be not only ad hoc, but based on guesses, because the number of
false positives will not tend to be large enough to notice patterns.
(It is just as well, anyway, if a backup system doesn't rely on the same
technology as the primary system.)Another thing I may try in the future is to focus extra attention
on specific parts of the email.  For example, about 95% of current
spam includes the url of a site they want
you to visit.  (The remaining 5% want you to call a phone number,
reply by email or to a US mail address, or in a few
cases to buy a certain stock.)   The url is in such cases
practically enough by itself to determine whether the email
is spam.Domain names differ from the rest of the text in
a (non-German) email in that they often consist of several
words stuck together.  Though computationally expensive 
in the general case, it might be worth trying to 
decompose them.  If a filter has never seen the
token "xxxporn" before it will have an individual spam
probability of .4, whereas "xxx" and "porn" individually
have probabilities (in my corpus) of .9889 and .99
respectively, and a combined probability of .9998.I expect decomposing domain names to become more
important as spammers are gradually forced to stop using
incriminating words in the text of their messages.  (A url
with an ip address is of course an extremely incriminating sign,
except in the mail of a few sysadmins.)It might be a good idea to have a cooperatively maintained
list of urls promoted by spammers.  We'd need a trust metric
of the type studied by Raph Levien to prevent malicious
or incompetent submissions, but if we had such a thing it
would provide a boost to any filtering software.   It would
also be a convenient basis for boycotts.Another way to test dubious urls would be to send out a
crawler to look at the site before the user looked at the
email mentioning it.  You could use a Bayesian filter to
rate the site just as you would an email, and whatever
was found on the site could be included in calculating
the probability of the email being a spam.  A url that led
to a redirect would of course be especially suspicious.One cooperative project that I think really would be a good
idea would be to accumulate a giant corpus of spam.  A large,
clean corpus is the key to making Bayesian filtering work
well.  Bayesian filters could actually use the corpus as
input.  But such a corpus would be useful for other kinds
of filters too, because it could be used to test them.Creating such a corpus poses some technical problems.  We'd
need trust metrics to prevent malicious or incompetent
submissions, of course.  We'd also need ways of erasing   
personal information (not just to-addresses and ccs, but
also e.g. the arguments to unsubscribe urls, which often
encode the to-address) from mails in the corpus.  If anyone
wants to take on this project, it would be a good thing for
the world.Appendix: Defining SpamI think there is a rough
consensus on what spam is, but it would be useful to have
an explicit definition.  We'll need to do this if we want to establish
a central corpus of spam, or even to compare spam filtering
rates meaningfully.To start with, spam is not unsolicited commercial email.
If someone in my neighborhood heard that I was looking for an old
Raleigh three-speed in good condition, and sent me an email
offering to sell me one, I'd be delighted, and yet this
email would be both commercial and unsolicited.  The
defining feature of spam (in fact, its raison d'etre)
is not that it is unsolicited, but that it is automated.It is merely incidental, too, that spam is usually commercial.
If someone started sending mass email to support some political
cause, for example, it would be just as much spam as email
promoting a porn site.I propose we define spam as unsolicited automated email.
This definition thus includes some email
that many legal definitions of spam don't.  Legal definitions
of spam, influenced presumably by lobbyists, tend to exclude
mail sent by companies that have an "existing relationship" with
the recipient.  But buying something from a company, for
example, does not imply that you have solicited
ongoing email from them.
If I order something from an online
store, and they then send me a stream of spam, it's still
spam.Companies sending spam often give you a way to "unsubscribe,"
or ask you to go to their site and change your "account
preferences" if you want to stop getting spam.  This is
not enough to stop the mail from being spam.  Not opting out
is not the same as opting in.  Unless the   
recipient explicitly checked a clearly labelled box (whose
default was no) asking to receive the email, then it is spam.In some business relationships, you do implicitly solicit
certain kinds of mail.   When you order online, I think you
implicitly solicit a receipt, and notification when the
order ships.
I don't mind when Verisign sends me mail warning that
a domain name is about to expire (at least, if they are the
actual 
registrar for it).  But when Verisign sends me
email offering a FREE Guide to Building My
E-Commerce Web Site, that's spam.Notes:[1] The examples in this article are translated
into Common Lisp for, believe it or not, greater accessibility.
The application described here is one that we wrote in order to
test a new Lisp dialect called Arc that is 
not yet released.[2] Currently the lowest rate seems to be about $200 to send a million spams.
That's very cheap, 1/50th of a cent per spam.
But filtering out 95%
of spam, for example, would increase the spammers' cost to reach
a given audience by a factor of 20.  Few can have
margins big enough to absorb that.[3] As a rule of thumb, the more qualifiers there are before the
name of a country, the more corrupt the rulers.  A
country called The Socialist People's Democratic Republic
of X is probably the last place in the world you'd want to live.Thanks to Sarah Harlin for reading drafts of this; Daniel Giffin (who is 
also writing the production Arc interpreter) for several good ideas about
filtering and for creating our mail infrastructure; Robert Morris,
Trevor Blackwell and Erann Gat for many discussions about spam; Raph 
Levien for advice about trust metrics;  and Chip Coldwell 
and Sam Steingold for advice about statistics.
You'll find this essay and 14 others in
Hackers & Painters.
More Info:Plan for Spam FAQBetter Bayesian FilteringFilters that Fight BackWill Filters Kill Spam?Japanese TranslationSpanish TranslationChinese TranslationProbabilitySpam is DifferentFilters vs. BlacklistsTrust MetricsFiltering ResearchMicrosoft PatentSlashdot ArticleThe Wrong WayLWN: Filter ComparisonCRM114 gets 99.87%
