March 2011Yesterday Fred Wilson published a remarkable post about missing
Airbnb.   VCs miss good startups all the time, but it's extraordinarily
rare for one to talk about it publicly till long afterward.  So
that post is further evidence what a rare bird Fred is.  He's
probably the nicest VC I know.Reading Fred's post made me go back and look at the emails I exchanged
with him at the time, trying to convince him to invest in Airbnb.
It was quite interesting to read.  You can see Fred's mind at work 
as he circles the deal.Fred and the Airbnb founders have generously agreed to let me publish
this email exchange (with one sentence redacted about something
that's strategically important to Airbnb and not an important part
of the conversation).  It's an interesting illustration of an element
of the startup ecosystem that few except the participants ever see:
investors trying to convince one another to invest in their portfolio
companies.  Hundreds if not thousands of conversations of this type
are happening now, but if one has ever been published, I haven't
seen it.  The Airbnbs themselves never even saw these emails at the
time.We do a lot of this behind the scenes stuff at YC, because we invest
in such a large number of companies, and we invest so early that
investors sometimes need a lot of convincing to see their merits.
I don't always try as hard as this though.  Fred must 
have found me quite annoying.
from: Paul Graham
to: Fred Wilson, AirBedAndBreakfast Founders
date: Fri, Jan 23, 2009 at 11:42 AM
subject: meet the airbedsOne of the startups from the batch that just started, AirbedAndBreakfast,
is in NYC right now meeting their users.  (NYC is their biggest
market.) I'd recommend meeting them if your schedule allows.I'd been thinking to myself that though these guys were going to
do really well, I should introduce them to angels, because VCs would
never go for it.  But then I thought maybe I should give you more
credit.  You'll certainly like meeting them.  Be sure to ask about
how they funded themselves with breakfast cereal.There's no reason this couldn't be as big as Ebay.  And this team
is the right one to do it.--pgfrom: Brian Chesky
to: Paul Graham
cc: Nathan Blecharczyk, Joe Gebbia
date: Fri, Jan 23, 2009 at 11:40 AM
subject: Re: meet the airbedsPG,Thanks for the intro!Brianfrom: Paul Graham
to: Brian Chesky
cc: Nathan Blecharczyk, Joe Gebbia
date: Fri, Jan 23, 2009 at 12:38 PM
subject: Re: meet the airbedsIt's a longshot, at this stage, but if there was any VC who'd get
you guys, it would be Fred.  He is the least suburban-golf-playing
VC I know.He likes to observe startups for a while before acting, so don't
be bummed if he seems ambivalent.--pgfrom: Fred Wilson
to: Paul Graham,
date: Sun, Jan 25, 2009 at 5:28 PM
subject: Re: meet the airbedsThanks PaulWe are having a bit of a debate inside our partnership about the
airbed concept. We'll finish that debate tomorrow in our weekly
meeting and get back to you with our thoughtsThanksFredfrom: Paul Graham
to: Fred Wilson
date: Sun, Jan 25, 2009 at 10:48 PM
subject: Re: meet the airbedsI'd recommend having the debate after meeting them instead of before.
We had big doubts about this idea, but they vanished on meeting the
guys.from: Fred Wilson
to: Paul Graham
date: Mon, Jan 26, 2009 at 11:08 AM
subject: RE: meet the airbedsWe are still very suspect of this idea but will take a meeting as
you suggestThanksfredfrom: Fred Wilson
to: Paul Graham, AirBedAndBreakfast Founders
date: Mon, Jan 26, 2009 at 11:09 AM
subject: RE: meet the airbedsAirbed team -Are you still in NYC?We'd like to meet if you areThanksfredfrom: Paul Graham
to: Fred Wilson
date: Mon, Jan 26, 2009 at 1:42 PM
subject: Re: meet the airbedsIdeas can morph.  Practically every really big startup could say,
five years later, "believe it or not, we started out doing ___."
It just seemed a very good sign to me that these guys were actually
on the ground in NYC hunting down (and understanding) their users.
On top of several previous good signs.--pgfrom: Fred Wilson
to: Paul Graham
date: Sun, Feb 1, 2009 at 7:15 AM
subject: Re: meet the airbedsIt's interestingOur two junior team members were enthusiasticThe three "old guys" didn't get itfrom: Paul Graham
to: Fred Wilson
date: Mon, Feb 9, 2009 at 5:58 PM
subject: airbnbThe Airbeds just won the first poll among all the YC startups in
their batch by a landslide.  In the past this has not been a 100%
indicator of success (if only anything were) but much better than
random.--pgfrom: Fred Wilson
to: Paul Graham
date: Fri, Feb 13, 2009 at 5:29 PM
subject: Re: airbnbI met them todayThey have an interesting businessI'm just not sure how big it's going to befredfrom: Paul Graham
to: Fred Wilson
date: Sat, Feb 14, 2009 at 9:50 AM
subject: Re: airbnbDid they explain the long-term goal of being the market in accommodation
the way eBay is in stuff?  That seems like it would be huge.  Hotels
now are like airlines in the 1970s before they figured out how to
increase their load factors.from: Fred Wilson
to: Paul Graham
date: Tue, Feb 17, 2009 at 2:05 PM
subject: Re: airbnbThey did but I am not sure I buy thatABNB reminds me of Etsy in that it facilitates real commerce in a
marketplace model directly between two peopleSo I think it can scale all the way to the bed and breakfast marketBut I am not sure they can take on the hotel marketI could be wrongBut even so, if you include short term room rental, second home
rental, bed and breakfast, and other similar classes of accommodations,
you get to a pretty big opportunityfredfrom: Paul Graham
to: Fred Wilson
date: Wed, Feb 18, 2009 at 12:21 AM
subject: Re: airbnbSo invest in them!  They're very capital efficient.  They would
make an investor's money go a long way.It's also counter-cyclical.  They just arrived back from NYC, and
when I asked them what was the most significant thing they'd observed,
it was how many of their users actually needed to do these rentals
to pay their rents.--pgfrom: Fred Wilson
to: Paul Graham
date: Wed, Feb 18, 2009 at 2:21 AM
subject: Re: airbnbThere's a lot to likeI've done a few things, like intro it to my friends at Foundry who
were investors in Service Metrics and understand this modelI am also talking to my friend Mark Pincus who had an idea like
this a few years ago.So we are working on itThanks for the leadFredfrom: Paul Graham
to: Fred Wilson
date: Fri, Feb 20, 2009 at 10:00 PM
subject: airbnb already spreading to prosI know you're skeptical they'll ever get hotels, but there's a
continuum between private sofas and hotel rooms, and they just moved
one step further along it.[link to an airbnb user]This is after only a few months.  I bet you they will get hotels
eventually.  It will start with small ones.  Just wait till all the
10-room pensiones in Rome discover this site.  And once it spreads
to hotels, where is the point (in size of chain) at which it stops?
Once something becomes a big marketplace, you ignore it at your
peril.--pgfrom: Fred Wilson
to: Paul Graham
date: Sat, Feb 21, 2009 at 4:26 AM
subject: Re: airbnb already spreading to prosThat's true. It's also true that there are quite a few marketplaces
out there that serve this same marketIf you look at many of the people who list at ABNB, they list
elsewhere tooI am not negative on this one, I am interested, but we are still
in the gathering data phase.fred

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


December 2010Someone we funded is talking to VCs now, and asked me how common
it was for a startup's founders to retain control of the board after
a series A round.  He said VCs told him this almost never happened.Ten years ago that was true.  In the past, founders rarely kept
control of the board through a series A.  The traditional series A
board consisted of two founders, two VCs, and one independent member.
More recently the recipe is often one founder, one VC, and one
independent.  In either case the founders lose their majority.But not always.  Mark Zuckerberg kept control of Facebook's board
through the series A and still has it today.  Mark Pincus has kept
control of Zynga's too.  But are these just outliers?  How common
is it for founders to keep control after an A round?  I'd heard of
several cases among the companies we've funded, but I wasn't sure
how many there were, so I emailed the ycfounders list.The replies surprised me.  In a dozen companies we've funded, the
founders still had a majority of the board seats after the series
A round.I feel like we're at a tipping point here.  A lot of VCs still act
as if founders retaining board control after a series A is unheard-of.
A lot of them try to make you feel bad if you even ask — as if
you're a noob or a control freak for wanting such a thing.  But the
founders I heard from aren't noobs or control freaks.  Or if they
are, they are, like Mark Zuckerberg, the kind of noobs and control
freaks VCs should be trying to fund more of.Founders retaining control after a series A is clearly heard-of.
And barring financial catastrophe, I think in the coming year it
will become the norm.Control of a company is a more complicated matter than simply
outvoting other parties in board meetings.  Investors usually get
vetos over certain big decisions, like selling the company, regardless
of how many board seats they have.  And board votes are rarely
split.  Matters are decided in the discussion preceding the vote,
not in the vote itself, which is usually unanimous.  But if opinion
is divided in such discussions, the side that knows it would lose
in a vote will tend to be less insistent.  That's what board control
means in practice.  You don't simply get to do whatever you want;
the board still has to act in the interest of the shareholders; but
if you have a majority of board seats, then your opinion about
what's in the interest of the shareholders will tend to prevail.So while board control is not total control, it's not imaginary
either.  There's inevitably a difference in how things feel within
the company.  Which means if it becomes the norm for founders to
retain board control after a series A, that will change the way
things feel in the whole startup world.The switch to the new norm may be surprisingly fast, because the
startups that can retain control tend to be the best ones.  They're
the ones that set the trends, both for other startups and for VCs.A lot of the reason VCs are harsh when negotiating with startups
is that they're embarrassed to go back to their partners looking
like they got beaten.  When they sign a termsheet, they want to be
able to brag about the good terms they got.  A lot of them don't
care that much personally about whether founders keep board control.
They just don't want to seem like they had to make concessions.
Which means if letting the founders keep control stops being perceived
as a concession, it will rapidly become much more common.Like a lot of changes that have been forced on VCs, this change
won't turn out to be as big a problem as they might think. VCs will
still be able to convince; they just won't be able to compel.  And
the startups where they have to resort to compulsion are not the
ones that matter anyway.  VCs make most of their money from a few
big hits, and those aren't them.Knowing that founders will keep control of the board may even help
VCs pick better.  If they know they can't fire the founders, they'll
have to choose founders they can trust.  And that's who they should
have been choosing all along.Thanks to Sam Altman, John Bautista, Trevor Blackwell, Paul
Buchheit, Brian Chesky, Bill Clerico, Patrick Collison, Adam
Goldstein, James Lindenbaum, Jessica Livingston, and Fred Wilson
for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

December 2010I was thinking recently how inconvenient it was not to have a general
term for iPhones, iPads, and the corresponding things running
Android.  The closest to a general term seems to be "mobile devices,"
but that (a) applies to any mobile phone, and (b) doesn't really
capture what's distinctive about the iPad.After a few seconds it struck me that what we'll end up calling
these things is tablets.  The only reason we even consider calling
them "mobile devices" is that the iPhone preceded the iPad.  If the
iPad had come first, we wouldn't think of the iPhone as a phone;
we'd think of it as a tablet small enough to hold up to your ear.The iPhone isn't so much a phone as a replacement for a phone.
That's an important distinction, because it's an early instance of
what will become a common pattern.  Many if not most of the
special-purpose objects around us are going to be replaced by apps
running on tablets.This is already clear in cases like GPSes, music players, and
cameras.  But I think it will surprise people how many things are
going to get replaced.  We funded one startup that's 
replacing keys.
The fact that you can change font sizes easily means the iPad
effectively replaces reading glasses.  I wouldn't be surprised if
by playing some clever tricks with the accelerometer you could even
replace the bathroom scale.The advantages of doing things in software on a single device are
so great that everything that can get turned into software will.
So for the next couple years, a good recipe for startups
will be to look around you for things that people haven't realized
yet can be made unnecessary by a tablet app.In 1938 Buckminster Fuller coined the term ephemeralization to
describe the increasing tendency of physical machinery to be replaced
by what we would now call software.  The reason tablets are going
to take over the world is not (just) that Steve Jobs and Co are
industrial design wizards, but because they have this force behind
them.  The iPhone and the iPad have effectively drilled a hole that
will allow ephemeralization to flow into a lot of new areas.  No one
who has studied the history of technology would want to underestimate
the power of that force.I worry about the power Apple could have with this force behind
them.  I don't want to see another era of client monoculture like
the Microsoft one in the 80s and 90s.  But if ephemeralization is
one of the main forces driving the spread of tablets, that suggests
a way to compete with Apple: be a better platform for it.It has turned out to be a great thing that Apple tablets have
accelerometers in them.  Developers have used the accelerometer in
ways Apple could never have imagined.  That's the nature of platforms.
The more versatile the tool, the less you can predict how people
will use it.  So tablet makers should be thinking: what else can
we put in there?  Not merely hardware, but software too.  What else
can we give developers access to?  Give hackers an inch and they'll
take you a mile.Thanks to Sam Altman, Paul Buchheit, Jessica Livingston, and
Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


October 2010

(I wrote this for Forbes, who asked me to write something
about the qualities we look for in founders.  In print they had to cut
the last item because they didn't have room.)1. DeterminationThis has turned out to be the most important quality in startup
founders.  We thought when we started Y Combinator that the most
important quality would be intelligence.  That's the myth in the
Valley. And certainly you don't want founders to be stupid.  But
as long as you're over a certain threshold of intelligence, what
matters most is determination.  You're going to hit a lot of
obstacles.  You can't be the sort of person who gets demoralized
easily.Bill Clerico and Rich Aberman of WePay 
are a good example.  They're
doing a finance startup, which means endless negotiations with big,
bureaucratic companies.  When you're starting a startup that depends
on deals with big companies to exist, it often feels like they're
trying to ignore you out of existence.  But when Bill Clerico starts
calling you, you may as well do what he asks, because he is not
going away.2. FlexibilityYou do not however want the sort of determination implied by phrases
like "don't give up on your dreams."  The world of startups is so
unpredictable that you need to be able to modify your dreams on the
fly.  The best metaphor I've found for the combination of determination
and flexibility you need is a running back.  
He's determined to get
downfield, but at any given moment he may need to go sideways or
even backwards to get there.The current record holder for flexibility may be Daniel Gross of
Greplin.  He applied to YC with 
some bad ecommerce idea.  We told
him we'd fund him if he did something else.  He thought for a second,
and said ok.  He then went through two more ideas before settling
on Greplin.  He'd only been working on it for a couple days when
he presented to investors at Demo Day, but he got a lot of interest.
He always seems to land on his feet.3. ImaginationIntelligence does matter a lot of course.  It seems like the type
that matters most is imagination.  It's not so important to be able
to solve predefined problems quickly as to be able to come up with
surprising new ideas.  In the startup world, most good ideas 
seem
bad initially.  If they were obviously good, someone would already
be doing them.  So you need the kind of intelligence that produces
ideas with just the right level of craziness.Airbnb is that kind of idea.  
In fact, when we funded Airbnb, we
thought it was too crazy.  We couldn't believe large numbers of
people would want to stay in other people's places.  We funded them
because we liked the founders so much.  As soon as we heard they'd
been supporting themselves by selling Obama and McCain branded
breakfast cereal, they were in.  And it turned out the idea was on
the right side of crazy after all.4. NaughtinessThough the most successful founders are usually good people, they
tend to have a piratical gleam in their eye.  They're not Goody
Two-Shoes type good.  Morally, they care about getting the big
questions right, but not about observing proprieties.  That's why
I'd use the word naughty rather than evil.  They delight in 
breaking
rules, but not rules that matter.  This quality may be redundant
though; it may be implied by imagination.Sam Altman of Loopt 
is one of the most successful alumni, so we
asked him what question we could put on the Y Combinator application
that would help us discover more people like him.  He said to ask
about a time when they'd hacked something to their advantage—hacked in the sense of beating the system, not breaking into
computers.  It has become one of the questions we pay most attention
to when judging applications.5. FriendshipEmpirically it seems to be hard to start a startup with just 
one
founder.  Most of the big successes have two or three.  And the
relationship between the founders has to be strong.  They must
genuinely like one another, and work well together.  Startups do
to the relationship between the founders what a dog does to a sock:
if it can be pulled apart, it will be.Emmett Shear and Justin Kan of Justin.tv 
are a good example of close
friends who work well together.  They've known each other since
second grade.  They can practically read one another's minds.  I'm
sure they argue, like all founders, but I have never once sensed
any unresolved tension between them.Thanks to Jessica Livingston and Chris Steiner for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


October 2010After barely changing at all for decades, the startup funding
business is now in what could, at least by comparison, be called
turmoil.  At Y Combinator we've seen dramatic changes in the funding
environment for startups.  Fortunately one of them is much higher
valuations.The trends we've been seeing are probably not YC-specific.  I wish
I could say they were, but the main cause is probably just that we
see trends first—partly because the startups we fund are very
plugged into the Valley and are quick to take advantage of anything
new, and partly because we fund so many that we have enough data
points to see patterns clearly.What we're seeing now, everyone's probably going to be seeing in
the next couple years.  So I'm going to explain what we're seeing,
and what that will mean for you if you try to raise money.Super-AngelsLet me start by describing what the world of startup funding used
to look like.  There used to be two sharply differentiated types
of investors: angels and venture capitalists.  Angels are individual
rich people who invest small amounts of their own money, while VCs
are employees of funds that invest large amounts of other people's.For decades there were just those two types of investors, but now
a third type has appeared halfway between them: the so-called
super-angels. 
[1]
  And VCs have been provoked by their arrival
into making a lot of angel-style investments themselves.  So the
previously sharp line between angels and VCs has become hopelessly
blurred.There used to be a no man's land between angels and VCs.  Angels
would invest $20k to $50k apiece, and VCs usually a million or more.
So an angel round meant a collection of angel investments that
combined to maybe $200k, and a VC round meant a series A round in
which a single VC fund (or occasionally two) invested $1-5 million.The no man's land between angels and VCs was a very inconvenient
one for startups, because it coincided with the amount many wanted
to raise.  Most startups coming out of Demo Day wanted to raise
around $400k.  But it was a pain to stitch together that much out
of angel investments, and most VCs weren't interested in investments
so small.  That's the fundamental reason the super-angels have
appeared.  They're responding to the market.The arrival of a new type of investor is big news for startups,
because there used to be only two and they rarely competed with one
another.  Super-angels compete with both angels and VCs.  That's
going to change the rules about how to raise money.  I don't know
yet what the new rules will be, but it looks like most of the changes
will be for the better.A super-angel has some of the qualities of an angel, and some of
the qualities of a VC.  They're usually individuals, like angels.
In fact many of the current super-angels were initially angels of
the classic type.  But like VCs, they invest other people's money.
This allows them to invest larger amounts than angels:  a typical
super-angel investment is currently about $100k.  They make investment
decisions quickly, like angels.  And they make a lot more investments
per partner than VCs—up to 10 times as many.The fact that super-angels invest other people's money makes them
doubly alarming to VCs. They don't just compete for startups; they
also compete for investors.  What super-angels really are is a new
form of fast-moving, lightweight VC fund.   And those of us in the
technology world know what usually happens when something comes
along that can be described in terms like that.  Usually it's the
replacement.Will it be?  As of now, few of the startups that take money from
super-angels are ruling out taking VC money.  They're just postponing
it.  But that's still a problem for VCs.  Some of the startups that
postpone raising VC money may do so well on the angel money they
raise that they never bother to raise more.  And those who do raise
VC rounds will be able to get higher valuations when they do.  If
the best startups get 10x higher valuations when they raise series
A rounds, that would cut VCs' returns from winners at least tenfold.
[2]So I think VC funds are seriously threatened by the super-angels.
But one thing that may save them to some extent is the uneven
distribution of startup outcomes: practically all the returns are
concentrated in a few big successes.  The expected value of a startup
is the percentage chance it's Google.  So to the extent that winning
is a matter of absolute returns, the super-angels could win practically
all the battles for individual startups and yet lose the war, if
they merely failed to get those few big winners.  And there's a
chance that could happen, because the top VC funds have better
brands, and can also do more for their portfolio companies.  
[3]Because super-angels make more investments per partner, they have
less partner per investment.  They can't pay as much attention to
you as a VC on your board could.  How much is that extra attention
worth?  It will vary enormously from one partner to another.  There's
no consensus yet in the general case.  So for now this is something
startups are deciding individually.Till now, VCs' claims about how much value they added were sort of
like the government's.  Maybe they made you feel better, but you
had no choice in the matter, if you needed money on the scale only
VCs could supply.  Now that VCs have competitors, that's going to
put a market price on the help they offer.  The interesting thing
is, no one knows yet what it will be.Do startups that want to get really big need the sort of advice and
connections only the top VCs can supply?  Or would super-angel money
do just as well?  The VCs will say you need them, and the super-angels
will say you don't.  But the truth is, no one knows yet, not even
the VCs and super-angels themselves.   All the super-angels know
is that their new model seems promising enough to be worth trying,
and all the VCs know is that it seems promising enough to worry
about.RoundsWhatever the outcome, the conflict between VCs and super-angels is
good news for founders.  And not just for the obvious reason that
more competition for deals means better terms.  The whole shape of
deals is changing.One of the biggest differences between angels and VCs is the amount
of your company they want.  VCs want a lot.  In a series A round
they want a third of your company, if they can get it.  They don't
care much how much they pay for it, but they want a lot because the
number of series A investments they can do is so small.  In a
traditional series A investment, at least one partner from the VC
fund takes a seat on your board.  
[4]
 Since board seats last about
5 years and each partner can't handle more than about 10 at once,
that means a VC fund can only do about 2 series A deals per partner
per year. And that means they need to get as much of the company
as they can in each one.  You'd have to be a very promising startup
indeed to get a VC to use up one of his 10 board seats for only a
few percent of you.Since angels generally don't take board seats, they don't have this
constraint.  They're happy to buy only a few percent of you.  And
although the super-angels are in most respects mini VC funds, they've
retained this critical property of angels.  They don't take board
seats, so they don't need a big percentage of your company.Though that means you'll get correspondingly less attention from
them, it's good news in other respects.  Founders never really liked
giving up as much equity as VCs wanted.  It was a lot of the company
to give up in one shot.  Most founders doing series A deals would
prefer to take half as much money for half as much stock, and then
see what valuation they could get for the second half of the stock
after using the first half of the money to increase its value.  But
VCs never offered that option.Now startups have another alternative.  Now it's easy to raise angel
rounds about half the size of series A rounds.  Many of the startups
we fund are taking this route, and I predict that will be true of
startups in general.A typical big angel round might be $600k on a convertible note with
a valuation cap of $4 million premoney.  Meaning that when the note
converts into stock (in a later round, or upon acquisition), the
investors in that round will get .6 / 4.6, or 13% of the company.
That's a lot less than the 30 to 40% of the company you usually
give up in a series A round if you do it so early.  
[5]But the advantage of these medium-sized rounds is not just that
they cause less dilution.  You also lose less control.  After an
angel round, the founders almost always still have control of the
company, whereas after a series A round they often don't.  The
traditional board structure after a series A round is two founders,
two VCs, and a (supposedly) neutral fifth person.  Plus series A
terms usually give the investors a veto over various kinds of
important decisions, including selling the company.  Founders usually
have a lot of de facto control after a series A, as long as things
are going well.  But that's not the same as just being able to do
what you want, like you could before.A third and quite significant advantage of angel rounds is that
they're less stressful to raise.  Raising a traditional series A
round has in the past taken weeks, if not months.  When a VC firm
can only do 2 deals per partner per year, they're careful about
which they do.  To get a traditional series A round you have to go
through a series of meetings, culminating in a full partner meeting
where the firm as a whole says yes or no.  That's the really scary
part for founders: not just that series A rounds take so long, but
at the end of this long process the VCs might still say no.  The
chance of getting rejected after the full partner meeting averages
about 25%.  At some firms it's over 50%.Fortunately for founders, VCs have been getting a lot faster.
Nowadays Valley VCs are more likely to take 2 weeks than 2 months.
But they're still not as fast as angels and super-angels, the most
decisive of whom sometimes decide in hours.Raising an angel round is not only quicker, but you get feedback
as it progresses.  An angel round is not an all or nothing thing
like a series A.  It's composed of multiple investors with varying
degrees of seriousness, ranging from the upstanding ones who commit
unequivocally to the jerks who give you lines like "come back to
me to fill out the round." You usually start collecting money from
the most committed investors and work your way out toward the
ambivalent ones, whose interest increases as the round fills up.But at each point you know how you're doing.  If investors turn
cold you may have to raise less, but when investors in an angel
round turn cold the process at least degrades gracefully, instead
of blowing up in your face and leaving you with nothing, as happens
if you get rejected by a VC fund after a full partner meeting.
Whereas if investors seem hot, you can not only close the round
faster, but now that convertible notes are becoming the norm,
actually raise the price to reflect demand.ValuationHowever, the VCs have a weapon they can use against the super-angels,
and they have started to use it.   VCs have started making angel-sized
investments too.  The term "angel round" doesn't mean that all the
investors in it are angels; it just describes the structure of the
round.  Increasingly the participants include VCs making investments
of a hundred thousand or two.  And when VCs invest in angel rounds
they can do things that super-angels don't like.  VCs are quite
valuation-insensitive in angel rounds—partly because they are
in general, and partly because they don't care that much about the
returns on angel rounds, which they still view mostly as a way to
recruit startups for series A rounds later.  So VCs who invest in
angel rounds can blow up the valuations for angels and super-angels
who invest in them. 
[6]Some super-angels seem to care about valuations.  Several turned
down YC-funded startups after Demo Day because their valuations
were too high.  This was not a problem for the startups; by definition
a high valuation means enough investors were willing to accept it.
But it was mysterious to me that the super-angels would quibble
about valuations.  Did they not understand that the big returns
come from a few big successes, and that it therefore mattered far
more which startups you picked than how much you paid for them?After thinking about it for a while and observing certain other
signs, I have a theory that explains why the super-angels may be
smarter than they seem.  It would make sense for super-angels to
want low valuations if they're hoping to invest in startups that
get bought early.  If you're hoping to hit the next Google, you
shouldn't care if the valuation is 20 million.  But if you're looking
for companies that are going to get bought for 30 million, you care.
If you invest at 20 and the company gets bought for 30, you only
get 1.5x.  You might as well buy Apple.So if some of the super-angels were looking for companies that could
get acquired quickly, that would explain why they'd care about
valuations.  But why would they be looking for those?   Because
depending on the meaning of "quickly," it could actually be very
profitable.  A company that gets acquired for 30 million is a failure
to a VC, but it could be a 10x return for an angel, and moreover,
a quick 10x return.  Rate of return is what matters in
investing—not the multiple you get, but the multiple per year.
If a super-angel gets 10x in one year, that's a higher rate of
return than a VC could ever hope to get from a company that took 6
years to go public.  To get the same rate of return, the VC would
have to get a multiple of 10^6—one million x.  Even Google
didn't come close to that.So I think at least some super-angels are looking for companies
that will get bought.  That's the only rational explanation for
focusing on getting the right valuations, instead of the right
companies.  And if so they'll be different to deal with than VCs.
They'll be tougher on valuations, but more accommodating if you want
to sell early.PrognosisWho will win, the super-angels or the VCs?  I think the answer to
that is, some of each.  They'll each become more like one another.
The super-angels will start to invest larger amounts, and the VCs
will gradually figure out ways to make more, smaller investments
faster.  A decade from now the players will be hard to tell apart,
and there will probably be survivors from each group.What does that mean for founders?  One thing it means is that the
high valuations startups are presently getting may not last forever.
To the extent that valuations are being driven up by price-insensitive
VCs, they'll fall again if VCs become more like super-angels and
start to become more miserly about valuations.  Fortunately if this
does happen it will take years.The short term forecast is more competition between investors, which
is good news for you.  The super-angels will try to undermine the
VCs by acting faster, and the VCs will try to undermine the
super-angels by driving up valuations.  Which for founders will
result in the perfect combination: funding rounds that close fast,
with high valuations.But remember that to get that combination, your startup will have
to appeal to both super-angels and VCs.  If you don't seem like you
have the potential to go public, you won't be able to use VCs to
drive up the valuation of an angel round.There is a danger of having VCs in an angel round: the so-called
signalling risk.  If VCs are only doing it in the hope of investing
more later, what happens if they don't?  That's a signal to everyone
else that they think you're lame.How much should you worry about that?  The seriousness of signalling
risk depends on how far along you are.  If by the next time you
need to raise money, you have graphs showing rising revenue or
traffic month after month, you don't have to worry about any signals
your existing investors are sending.  Your results will speak for
themselves.  
[7]Whereas if the next time you need to raise money you won't yet have
concrete results, you may need to think more about the message your
investors might send if they don't invest more.  I'm not sure yet
how much you have to worry, because this whole phenomenon of VCs
doing angel investments is so new. But my instincts tell me you
don't have to worry much.  Signalling risk smells like one of those
things founders worry about that's not a real problem.  As a rule,
the only thing that can kill a good startup is the startup itself.
Startups hurt themselves way more often than competitors hurt them,
for example.  I suspect signalling risk is in this category too.One thing YC-funded startups have been doing to mitigate the risk
of taking money from VCs in angel rounds is not to take too much
from any one VC.  Maybe that will help, if you have the luxury of
turning down money.Fortunately, more and more startups will.  After decades of competition
that could best be described as intramural, the startup funding
business is finally getting some real competition.  That should
last several years at least, and maybe a lot longer. Unless there's
some huge market crash, the next couple years are going to be a
good time for startups to raise money.  And that's exciting because
it means lots more startups will happen.Notes[1]
I've also heard them called "Mini-VCs" and "Micro-VCs." I
don't know which name will stick.There were a couple predecessors.  Ron Conway had angel funds
starting in the 1990s, and in some ways First Round Capital is closer to a
super-angel than a VC fund.[2]
It wouldn't cut their overall returns tenfold, because investing
later would probably (a) cause them to lose less on investments
that failed, and (b) not allow them to get as large a percentage
of startups as they do now.  So it's hard to predict precisely what
would happen to their returns.[3]
The brand of an investor derives mostly from the success of
their portfolio companies.  The top VCs thus have a big brand
advantage over the super-angels.  They could make it self-perpetuating
if they used it to get all the best new startups.  But I don't think
they'll be able to.  To get all the best startups, you have to do
more than make them want you.  You also have to want them; you have
to recognize them when you see them, and that's much harder.
Super-angels will snap up stars that VCs miss.  And that will cause
the brand gap between the top VCs and the super-angels gradually
to erode.[4]
Though in a traditional series A round VCs put two partners
on your board, there are signs now that VCs may begin to conserve
board seats by switching to what used to be considered an angel-round
board, consisting of two founders and one VC.  Which is also to the
founders' advantage if it means they still control the company.[5]
In a series A round, you usually have to give up more than
the actual amount of stock the VCs buy, because they insist you
dilute yourselves to set aside an "option pool" as well.  I predict
this practice will gradually disappear though.[6]
The best thing for founders, if they can get it, is a convertible
note with no valuation cap at all.  In that case the money invested
in the angel round just converts into stock at the valuation of the
next round, no matter how large.  Angels and super-angels tend not
to like uncapped notes. They have no idea how much of the company
they're buying.  If the company does well and the valuation of the
next round is high, they may end up with only a sliver of it.  So
by agreeing to uncapped notes, VCs who don't care about valuations
in angel rounds can make offers that super-angels hate to match.[7]
Obviously signalling risk is also not a problem if you'll
never need to raise more money.  But startups are often mistaken
about that.Thanks to Sam Altman, John Bautista, Patrick Collison, James
Lindenbaum, Reid Hoffman, Jessica Livingston and Harj Taggar
for reading drafts
of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


October 2010Silicon Valley proper is mostly suburban sprawl.  At first glance
it doesn't seem there's anything to see.  It's not the sort of place
that has conspicuous monuments.  But if you look, there are subtle
signs you're in a place that's different from other places.1. Stanford
UniversityStanford is a strange place.  Structurally it is to an ordinary
university what suburbia is to a city.  It's enormously spread out,
and feels surprisingly empty much of the time.  But notice the
weather.  It's probably perfect.  And notice the beautiful mountains
to the west.  And though you can't see it, cosmopolitan San Francisco
is 40 minutes to the north.  That combination is much of the reason
Silicon Valley grew up around this university and not some other
one.2. University
AveA surprising amount of the work of the Valley is done in the cafes
on or just off University Ave in Palo Alto.  If you visit on a
weekday between 10 and 5, you'll often see founders pitching
investors.  In case you can't tell, the founders are the ones leaning
forward eagerly, and the investors are the ones sitting back with
slightly pained expressions.3.  The Lucky
OfficeThe office at 165 University Ave was Google's first.  Then it was
Paypal's.  (Now it's Wepay's.)  The interesting thing about it is
the location.  It's a smart move to put a startup in a place with
restaurants and people walking around instead of in an office park,
because then the people who work there want to stay there, instead
of fleeing as soon as conventional working hours end.  They go out
for dinner together, talk about ideas, and then come back and
implement them.It's important to realize that Google's current location in an
office park is not where they started; it's just where they were
forced to move when they needed more space.  Facebook was till
recently across the street, till they too had to move because they
needed more space.4. Old
Palo AltoPalo Alto was not originally a suburb.  For the first 100 years or
so of its existence, it was a college town out in the countryside.
Then in the mid 1950s it was engulfed in a wave of suburbia that
raced down the peninsula.  But Palo Alto north of Oregon expressway
still feels noticeably different from the area around it.  It's one
of the nicest places in the Valley.  The buildings are old (though
increasingly they are being torn down and replaced with generic
McMansions) and the trees are tall.  But houses are very
expensive—around $1000 per square foot. This is post-exit
Silicon Valley.5. Sand
Hill RoadIt's interesting to see the VCs' offices on the north side of Sand
Hill Road precisely because they're so boringly uniform.  The
buildings are all more or less the same, their exteriors express
very little, and they are arranged in a confusing maze.  (I've been
visiting them for years and I still occasionally get lost.) It's
not a coincidence.  These buildings are a pretty accurate reflection
of the VC business.If you go on a weekday you may see groups of founders there to meet
VCs. But mostly you won't see anyone; bustling is the last word
you'd use to describe the atmos.  Visiting Sand Hill Road reminds
you that the opposite of "down and dirty" would be "up and clean."6.  Castro
StreetIt's a tossup whether Castro Street or University Ave should be
considered the heart of the Valley now.  University Ave would have
been 10 years ago.  But Palo Alto is getting expensive.  Increasingly
startups are located in Mountain View, and Palo Alto is a place
they come to meet investors.  Palo Alto has a lot of different
cafes, but there is one that clearly dominates in Mountain View:
Red
Rock.7. GoogleGoogle spread out from its first building in Mountain View 
to a lot of the surrounding ones.  But because the
buildings were built at different times by different people,
the place doesn't have the sterile, walled-off feel that a typical
large company's headquarters have.  It definitely has a flavor of
its own though.  You sense there is something afoot.  The general
atmos is vaguely utopian; there are lots of Priuses, and people who
look like they drive them.You can't get into Google unless you know someone there.  It's very
much worth seeing inside if you can, though.   Ditto for Facebook,
at the end of California Ave in Palo Alto, though there is nothing
to see outside.8.  Skyline
DriveSkyline Drive runs along the crest of the Santa Cruz mountains.  On
one side is the Valley, and on the other is the sea—which
because it's cold and foggy and has few harbors, plays surprisingly
little role in the lives of people in the Valley, considering how
close it is.  Along some parts of Skyline the dominant trees are
huge redwoods, and in others they're live oaks.  Redwoods mean those
are the parts where the fog off the coast comes in at night; redwoods
condense rain out of fog.  The MROSD manages a collection of great walking trails off
Skyline.9. 280Silicon Valley has two highways running the length of it: 101, which
is pretty ugly, and 280, which is one of the more beautiful highways
in the world.  I always take 280 when I have a choice.  Notice the
long narrow lake to the west? That's the San Andreas Fault.  It
runs along the base of the hills, then heads uphill through Portola
Valley.  One of the MROSD trails runs right along
the fault.  A string of rich neighborhoods runs along the
foothills to the west of 280: Woodside, Portola Valley, Los Altos
Hills, Saratoga, Los Gatos.SLAC goes right under 280 a little bit south of Sand Hill Road.  And a couple miles south of that is the Valley's equivalent of the "Welcome to Las Vegas" sign: The Dish.NotesI skipped the Computer
History Museum because this is a list of where to see the Valley
itself, not where to see artifacts from it.  I also skipped San
Jose.  San Jose calls itself the capital of Silicon Valley, but
when people in the Valley use the phrase "the city," they mean San
Francisco.  San Jose is a dotted line on a map.Thanks to Sam Altman, Paul Buchheit, Patrick Collison, and Jessica Livingston
for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


September 2010The reason startups have been using 
more convertible notes in angel
rounds is that they make deals close faster.  By making it easier
for startups to give different prices to different investors, they
help them break the sort of deadlock that happens when investors
all wait to see who else is going to invest.By far the biggest influence on investors' opinions of a startup
is the opinion of other investors.  There are very, very few who
simply decide for themselves.  Any startup founder can tell you the
most common question they hear from investors is not about the
founders or the product, but "who else is investing?"That tends to produce deadlocks.  Raising an old-fashioned 
fixed-size equity round can take weeks, because all the angels sit around
waiting for the others to commit, like competitors in a bicycle
sprint who deliberately ride slowly at the start so they can follow
whoever breaks first.Convertible notes let startups beat such deadlocks by rewarding
investors willing to move first with lower (effective) valuations.
Which they deserve because they're taking more risk.  It's much
safer to invest in a startup Ron Conway has already invested in;
someone who comes after him should pay a higher price.The reason convertible notes allow more flexibility in price is
that valuation caps aren't actual valuations, and notes are cheap
and easy to do.  So you can do high-resolution fundraising: if you
wanted you could have a separate note with a different cap for each
investor.That cap need not simply rise monotonically.  A startup could 
also give better deals to investors they expected to help
them most.  The point is simply that different investors, 
whether because of the help they offer or their willingness to
commit, have different values for
startups, and their terms should reflect that.Different terms for different investors is
clearly the way of the future.  Markets always evolve toward higher
resolution.  You may not need to use convertible notes to do it.
With sufficiently lightweight standardized equity terms (and some
changes in investors' and lawyers' expectations about equity rounds)
you might be able to do the same thing with equity instead of debt.
Either would be fine with startups, so long as they can easily
change their valuation.Deadlocks weren't the only problem with fixed-size equity rounds.
Another was that startups had to decide in advance how much to
raise.  I think it's a mistake for a startup to fix upon a specific
number. If investors are easily convinced, the startup should raise more
now, and if investors are skeptical, the startup should take a
smaller amount and use that to get the company to the point where
it's more convincing.It's just not reasonable to expect startups to pick an optimal round
size in advance, because that depends on the reactions of investors,
and those are impossible to predict.Fixed-size, multi-investor angel rounds are such a bad idea for
startups that one wonders why things were ever done that way.  One
possibility is that this custom reflects the way investors like to
collude when they can get away with it.  But I think the actual
explanation is less sinister.  I think angels (and their lawyers)
organized rounds this way in unthinking imitation of VC series A
rounds.  In a series A, a fixed-size equity round with a lead makes
sense, because there is usually just one big investor, who is
unequivocally the lead.  Fixed-size series A rounds already are
high res.  But the more investors you have in a round, the less
sense it makes for everyone to get the same price.The most interesting question here may be what high res fundraising
will do to the world of investors.  Bolder investors will now get
rewarded with lower prices.  But more important, in a
hits-driven business, is that they'll be able to get into the deals
they want.  Whereas the "who else is investing?" type of investors
will not only pay higher prices, but may not be able to get into
the best deals at all.Thanks to Immad Akhund, Sam Altman, John Bautista, Pete Koomen, 
Jessica Livingston, Dan Siroker, Harj Taggar, and
Fred Wilson for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


August 2010When I went to work for Yahoo after they bought our startup in 1998,
it felt like the center of the world.  It was supposed to be the
next big thing.  It was supposed to be what Google turned out to
be.What went wrong?  The problems that hosed Yahoo go back a long time,
practically to the beginning of the company.  They were already
very visible when I got there in 1998.  Yahoo had two problems
Google didn't: easy money, and ambivalence about being a technology
company.MoneyThe first time I met Jerry Yang, we thought we were meeting for
different reasons.  He thought we were meeting so he could check
us out in person before buying us. I thought we were meeting so we
could show him our new technology, Revenue Loop.   It was a way of
sorting shopping search results.  Merchants bid a percentage of
sales for traffic, but the results were sorted not by the bid but
by the bid times the average amount a user would buy.  It was
like the algorithm Google uses now to sort ads, but this was in the
spring of 1998, before Google was founded.Revenue Loop was the optimal sort for shopping search, in the sense
that it sorted in order of how much money Yahoo would make from
each link.  But it wasn't just optimal in that sense.  Ranking
search results by user behavior also makes search better.  Users
train the search: you can start out finding matches based on mere
textual similarity, and as users buy more stuff the search results
get better and better.Jerry didn't seem to care.  I was confused.  I was showing him
technology that extracted the maximum value from search traffic,
and he didn't care?  I couldn't tell whether I was explaining it
badly, or he was just very poker faced.I didn't realize the answer till later, after I went to work at
Yahoo.  It was neither of my guesses.  The reason Yahoo didn't care
about a technique that extracted the full value of traffic was that
advertisers were already overpaying for it.  If Yahoo merely extracted
the actual value, they'd have made less.Hard as it is to believe now, the big money then was in banner ads.
Advertisers were willing to pay ridiculous amounts for banner ads.
So Yahoo's sales force had evolved to exploit this source of revenue.
Led by a large and terrifyingly formidable man called Anil Singh,
Yahoo's sales guys would fly out to Procter & Gamble and come back
with million dollar orders for banner ad impressions.The prices seemed cheap compared to print, which was what advertisers,
for lack of any other reference, compared them to.  But they were
expensive compared to what they were worth.  So these big, dumb
companies were a dangerous source of revenue to depend on.  But
there was another source even more dangerous: other Internet startups.By 1998, Yahoo was the beneficiary of a de facto Ponzi scheme.
Investors were excited about the Internet.  One reason they were
excited was Yahoo's revenue growth.  So they invested in new Internet
startups.  The startups then used the money to buy ads on Yahoo to
get traffic.  Which caused yet more revenue growth for Yahoo, and
further convinced investors the Internet was worth investing in.
When I realized this one day, sitting in my cubicle, I jumped up
like Archimedes in his bathtub, except instead of "Eureka!" I was
shouting "Sell!"Both the Internet startups and the Procter & Gambles were doing
brand advertising.  They didn't care about targeting.  They just
wanted lots of people to see their ads.  So traffic became the thing
to get at Yahoo.  It didn't matter what type.
[1]It wasn't just Yahoo.  All the search engines were doing it.  This
was why they were trying to get people to start calling them "portals"
instead of "search engines." Despite the actual meaning of the word
portal, what they meant by it was a site where users would find
what they wanted on the site itself, instead of just passing through
on their way to other destinations, as they did at a search engine.I remember telling David Filo in late 1998 or early 1999 that Yahoo
should buy Google, because I and most of the other programmers in
the company were using it instead of Yahoo for search.  He told me
that it wasn't worth worrying about.  Search was only 6% of our
traffic, and we were growing at 10% a month.   It wasn't worth doing
better.I didn't say "But search traffic is worth more than other traffic!"
I said "Oh, ok."  Because I didn't realize either how much search
traffic was worth.  I'm not sure even Larry and Sergey did then.
If they had, Google presumably wouldn't have expended any effort
on enterprise search.If circumstances had been different, the people running Yahoo might
have realized sooner how important search was.  But they had the
most opaque obstacle in the world between them and the truth: money.
As long as customers were writing big checks for banner ads, it was
hard to take search seriously.  Google didn't have that to distract
them.HackersBut Yahoo also had another problem that made it hard to change
directions.  They'd been thrown off balance from the start by their
ambivalence about being a technology company.One of the weirdest things about Yahoo when I went to work there
was the way they insisted on calling themselves a "media company."
If you walked around their offices, it seemed like a software
company.  The cubicles were full of programmers writing code, product
managers thinking about feature lists and ship dates, support people
(yes, there were actually support people) telling users to restart
their browsers, and so on, just like a software company.  So why
did they call themselves a media company?One reason was the way they made money: by selling ads.  In 1995
it was hard to imagine a technology company making money that way.
Technology companies made money by selling their software to users.
Media companies sold ads.  So they must be a media company.Another big factor was the fear of Microsoft.   If anyone at Yahoo
considered the idea that they should be a technology company, the
next thought would have been that Microsoft would crush them.It's hard for anyone much younger than me to understand the fear
Microsoft still inspired in 1995.  Imagine a company with several
times the power Google has now, but way meaner.  It was perfectly
reasonable to be afraid of them.  Yahoo watched them crush the first
hot Internet company, Netscape.  It was reasonable to worry that
if they tried to be the next Netscape, they'd suffer the same fate.
How were they to know that Netscape would turn out to be Microsoft's
last victim?It would have been a clever move to pretend to be a media company
to throw Microsoft off their scent.  But unfortunately Yahoo actually
tried to be one, sort of.  Project managers at Yahoo were called
"producers," for example, and the different parts of the company
were called "properties." But what Yahoo really needed to be was a
technology company, and by trying to be something else, they ended
up being something that was neither here nor there.  That's why
Yahoo as a company has never had a sharply defined identity.The worst consequence of trying to be a media company was that they
didn't take programming seriously enough.  Microsoft (back in the
day), Google, and Facebook have all had hacker-centric cultures.
But Yahoo treated programming as a commodity.  At Yahoo, user-facing software
was controlled by product managers and designers.  The job of
programmers was just to take the work of the product managers and
designers the final step, by translating it into code.One obvious result of this practice was that when Yahoo built things,
they often weren't very good. But that wasn't the worst problem.
The worst problem was that they hired bad programmers.Microsoft (back in the day), Google, and Facebook have all been
obsessed with hiring the best programmers.  Yahoo wasn't.  They
preferred good programmers to bad ones, but they didn't have the
kind of single-minded, almost obnoxiously elitist focus on hiring
the smartest people that the big winners have had.  And when you
consider how much competition there was for programmers when they
were hiring, during the Bubble, it's not surprising that the quality
of their programmers was uneven.In technology, once you have bad programmers, you're doomed.  I
can't think of an instance where a company has sunk into technical
mediocrity and recovered. Good programmers want to work with other
good programmers.  So once the quality of programmers at your company
starts to drop, you enter a death spiral from which there is no
recovery.
[2]At Yahoo this death spiral started early.  If there was ever a time when
Yahoo was a Google-style talent magnet, it was over by the time I
got there in 1998.The company felt prematurely old.  Most technology companies
eventually get taken over by suits and middle managers.  At Yahoo
it felt as if they'd deliberately accelerated this process.  They
didn't want to be a bunch of hackers.  They wanted to be suits.  A
media company should be run by suits.The first time I visited Google, they had about 500 people, the
same number Yahoo had when I went to work there.  But boy did things
seem different.  It was still very much a hacker-centric culture.
I remember talking to some programmers in the cafeteria about the
problem of gaming search results (now known as SEO), and they asked
"what should we do?"  Programmers at Yahoo wouldn't have asked that.
Theirs was not to reason why; theirs was to build what product
managers spec'd.  I remember coming away from Google thinking "Wow,
it's still a startup."There's not much we can learn from Yahoo's first fatal flaw. It's
probably too much to hope any company could avoid being damaged by
depending on a bogus source of revenue.  But startups can learn an
important lesson from the second one.  In the software business,
you can't afford not to have a hacker-centric culture.Probably the most impressive commitment I've heard to having a
hacker-centric culture came from Mark Zuckerberg, when he spoke at
Startup School in 2007.  He said that in the early days Facebook
made a point of hiring programmers even for jobs that would not
ordinarily consist of programming, like HR and marketing.So which companies need to have a hacker-centric culture?  Which
companies are "in the software business" in this respect?  As Yahoo
discovered, the area covered by this rule is bigger than most people
realize.  The answer is: any company that needs to have good software.Why would great programmers want to work for a company that didn't
have a hacker-centric culture, as long as there were others that
did?  I can imagine two reasons: if they were paid a huge amount,
or if the domain was interesting and none of the companies in it
were hacker-centric.  Otherwise you can't attract good programmers
to work in a suit-centric culture.  And without good programmers
you won't get good software, no matter how many people you put on
a task, or how many procedures you establish to ensure "quality."Hacker culture 
often seems kind of irresponsible.  That's why people
proposing to destroy it use phrases like "adult supervision." That
was the phrase they used at Yahoo.  But there are worse things than
seeming irresponsible.  Losing, for example.Notes[1]
The closest we got to targeting when I was there was when we
created pets.yahoo.com in order to provoke a bidding war between 3
pet supply startups for the spot as top sponsor.[2]
In theory you could beat the death spiral by buying good
programmers instead of hiring them.  You can get programmers
who would never have come to you as employees by buying their 
startups. But so far the only companies smart enough
to do this are companies smart enough not to need to.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston, and
Geoff Ralston for
reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


August 2010Two years ago I
wrote about what I called "a huge, unexploited
opportunity in startup funding:" the growing disconnect between
VCs, whose current business model requires them to invest large
amounts, and a large class of startups that need less than they
used to.  Increasingly, startups want a couple hundred thousand
dollars, not a couple million. 
[1]The opportunity is a lot less unexploited now.  Investors have
poured into this territory from both directions.  VCs are much more
likely to make angel-sized investments than they were a year ago.
And meanwhile the past year has seen a dramatic increase in a new
type of investor: the super-angel, who operates like an angel, but
using other people's money, like a VC.Though a lot of investors are entering this territory, there is
still room for more.  The distribution of investors should mirror
the distribution of startups, which has the usual power law dropoff.
So there should be a lot more people investing tens or hundreds of
thousands than millions. 
[2]In fact, it may be good for angels that there are more people doing
angel-sized deals, because if angel rounds become more legitimate,
then startups may start to opt for angel rounds even when they
could, if they wanted, raise series A rounds from VCs.  One reason
startups prefer series A rounds is that they're more prestigious.
But if angel investors become more active and better known, they'll
increasingly be able to compete with VCs in brand.Of course, prestige isn't the main reason to prefer a series A
round.  A startup will probably get more attention from investors
in a series A round than an angel round.  So if a startup is choosing
between an angel round and an A round from a good VC fund, I usually
advise them to take the A round. 
[3]But while series A rounds aren't going away, I think VCs should be
more worried about super-angels than vice versa.  Despite their
name, the super-angels are really mini VC funds, and they clearly
have existing VCs in their sights.They would seem to have history on their side.  
The pattern here seems the same
one we see when startups and established companies enter a new
market.  Online video becomes possible, and YouTube plunges right
in, while existing media companies embrace it only half-willingly,
driven more by fear than hope, and aiming more to protect their
turf than to do great things for users.  Ditto for PayPal.  This
pattern is repeated over and over, and it's usually the invaders
who win. In this case the super-angels are the invaders.  Angel
rounds are their whole business, as online video was for YouTube.
Whereas VCs who make angel investments mostly do it as a way to
generate deal flow for series A rounds.
[4]On the other hand, startup investing is a very strange business.
Nearly all the returns are concentrated in a few big winners.  If
the super-angels merely fail to invest in (and to some extent
produce) the big winners, they'll be out of business, even if they
invest in all the others.VCsWhy don't VCs start doing smaller series A rounds?  The sticking
point is board seats.  In a traditional series A round, the partner
whose deal it is takes a seat on the startup's board.  If we assume
the average startup runs for 6 years and a partner can bear to be
on 12 boards at once, then a VC fund can do 2 series A deals per
partner per year.It has always seemed to me the solution is to take fewer board
seats.  You don't have to be on the board to help a startup.  Maybe
VCs feel they need the power that comes with board membership to
ensure their money isn't wasted.  But have they tested that theory?
Unless they've tried not taking board seats and found their returns
are lower, they're not bracketing the problem.I'm not saying VCs don't help startups.  The good ones help them a
lot.  What I'm saying is that the kind of help that matters, you
may not have to be a board member to give.
[5]How will this all play out?  Some VCs will probably adapt, by doing
more, smaller deals.  I wouldn't be surprised if by streamlining
their selection process and taking fewer board seats, VC funds could
do 2 to 3 times as many series A rounds with no loss of quality.But other VCs will make no more than superficial changes.  VCs are
conservative, and the threat to them isn't mortal.  The VC funds
that don't adapt won't be violently displaced.  They'll edge gradually
into a different business without realizing it.  They'll still do
what they will call series A rounds, but these will increasingly
be de facto series B rounds.
[6]In such rounds they won't get the 25 to 40% of the company they do
now.  You don't give up as much of the company in later rounds
unless something is seriously wrong.  Since the VCs who don't adapt
will be investing later, their returns from winners may be smaller.
But investing later should also mean they have fewer losers.  So
their ratio of risk to return may be the same or even better.
They'll just have become a different, more conservative, type of
investment.AngelsIn the big angel rounds that increasingly compete with series A
rounds, the investors won't take as much equity as VCs do now.  And
VCs who try to compete with angels by doing more, smaller deals
will probably find they have to take less equity to do it. Which
is good news for founders: they'll get to keep more of the company.The deal terms of angel rounds will become less restrictive
too—not just less restrictive than series A terms, but less
restrictive than angel terms have traditionally been.In the future, angel rounds will less often be for specific amounts
or have a lead investor.  In the old days, the standard m.o. for
startups was to find one angel to act as the lead investor.  You'd
negotiate a round size and valuation with the lead, who'd supply
some but not all of the money.  Then the startup and the lead would
cooperate to find the rest.The future of angel rounds looks more like this: instead of a fixed
round size, startups will do a rolling close, where they take money
from investors one at a time till they feel they have enough.
[7]
And though there's going to be one investor who gives them the first
check, and his or her help in recruiting other investors will
certainly be welcome, this initial investor will no longer be the
lead in the old sense of managing the round.  The startup will now
do that themselves.There will continue to be lead investors in the sense of investors
who take the lead in advising a startup.  They may also make
the biggest investment.  But they won't always have to be the one
terms are negotiated with, or be the first money in, as they have
in the past.  Standardized paperwork will do away with the need to
negotiate anything except the valuation, and that will get easier
too.If multiple investors have to share a valuation, it will be whatever
the startup can get from the first one to write a check, limited
by their guess at whether this will make later investors balk.  But
there may not have to be just one valuation.  Startups are increasingly
raising money on convertible notes, and convertible notes have not
valuations but at most valuation caps: caps on what the
effective valuation will be when the debt converts to equity (in a
later round, or upon acquisition if that happens first).  That's
an important difference because it means a startup could do multiple
notes at once with different caps.  This is now starting to happen,
and I predict it will become more common.SheepThe reason things are moving this way is that the old way sucked
for startups.  Leads could (and did) use a fixed size round as a
legitimate-seeming way of saying what all founders hate to hear:
I'll invest if other people will.  Most investors, unable to judge
startups for themselves, rely instead on the opinions of other
investors.  If everyone wants in, they want in too; if not, not.
Founders hate this because it's a recipe for deadlock, and delay
is the thing a startup can least afford.  Most investors know this
m.o. is lame, and few say openly that they're doing it.  But the
craftier ones achieve the same result by offering to lead rounds
of fixed size and supplying only part of the money.  If the startup
can't raise the rest, the lead is out too.  How could they go ahead
with the deal?  The startup would be underfunded!In the future, investors will increasingly be unable to offer
investment subject to contingencies like other people investing.
Or rather, investors who do that will get last place in line.
Startups will go to them only to fill up rounds that are mostly
subscribed.  And since hot startups tend to have rounds that are
oversubscribed, being last in line means they'll probably miss the
hot deals.  Hot deals and successful startups are not identical,
but there is a significant correlation. 
[8]
So investors who won't invest unilaterally will have lower returns.Investors will probably find they do better when deprived of this
crutch anyway.   Chasing hot deals doesn't make investors choose
better; it just makes them feel better about their choices.  I've
seen feeding frenzies both form and fall apart many times, and as
far as I can tell they're mostly random. 
[9]
If investors can
no longer rely on their herd instincts, they'll have to think more
about each startup before investing.  They may be surprised how
well this works.Deadlock wasn't the only disadvantage of letting a lead investor
manage an angel round.  The investors would not infrequently collude
to push down the valuation.  And rounds took too long to close,
because however motivated the lead was to get the round closed, he
was not a tenth as motivated as the startup.Increasingly, startups are taking charge of their own angel rounds.
Only a few do so far, but I think we can already declare the old
way dead, because those few are the best startups.  They're the
ones in a position to tell investors how the round is going to work.
And if the startups you want to invest in do things a certain way,
what difference does it make what the others do?TractionIn fact, it may be slightly misleading to say that angel rounds
will increasingly take the place of series A rounds.  What's really
happening is that startup-controlled rounds are taking the place
of investor-controlled rounds.This is an instance of a very important meta-trend, one that Y
Combinator itself has been based on from the beginning: founders
are becoming increasingly powerful relative to investors.  So if
you want to predict what the future of venture funding will be like,
just ask: how would founders like it to be?  One by one, all the
things founders dislike about raising money are going to get
eliminated. 
[10]Using that heuristic, I'll predict a couple more things.  One is
that investors will increasingly be unable to wait for startups to
have "traction" before they put in significant money.  It's hard
to predict in advance which startups will succeed.  So most investors
prefer, if they can, to wait till the startup is already succeeding,
then jump in quickly with an offer.  Startups hate this as well,
partly because it tends to create deadlock, and partly because it
seems kind of slimy.  If you're a promising startup but don't yet
have significant growth, all the investors are your friends in
words, but few are in actions.  They all say they love you, but
they all wait to invest. Then when you start to see growth, they
claim they were your friend all along, and are aghast at the thought
you'd be so disloyal as to leave them out of your round.  If founders
become more powerful, they'll be able to make investors give them
more money upfront.(The worst variant of this behavior is the tranched deal, where the
investor makes a small initial investment, with more to follow if
the startup does well.  In effect, this structure gives the investor
a free option on the next round, which they'll only take if it's
worse for the startup than they could get in the open market.
Tranched deals are an abuse.  They're increasingly rare, and they're
going to get rarer.) 
[11]Investors don't like trying to predict which startups will succeed,
but increasingly they'll have to.  Though the way that happens won't
necessarily be that the behavior of existing investors will change;
it may instead be that they'll be replaced by other investors with
different behavior—that investors who understand startups
well enough to take on the hard problem of predicting their trajectory
will tend to displace suits whose skills lie more in raising money
from LPs.SpeedThe other thing founders hate most about fundraising is how long
it takes.  So as founders become more powerful, rounds should start
to close faster.Fundraising is still terribly distracting for startups. If you're
a founder in the middle of raising a round, the round is the top idea in your mind, which means working on the
company isn't.  If a round takes 2 months to close, which is
reasonably fast by present standards, that means 2 months during
which the company is basically treading water.  That's the worst
thing a startup could do.So if investors want to get the best deals, the way to do it will
be to close faster.   Investors don't need weeks to make up their
minds anyway.  We decide based on about 10 minutes of reading an
application plus 10 minutes of in person interview, and we only
regret about 10% of our decisions.  If we can decide in 20 minutes,
surely the next round of investors can decide in a couple days.
[12]There are a lot of institutionalized delays in startup funding: the
multi-week mating dance with investors; the distinction between
termsheets and deals; the fact that each series A has enormously
elaborate, custom paperwork.  Both founders and investors tend to
take these for granted.  It's the way things have always been.  But
ultimately the reason these delays exist is that they're to the
advantage of investors.  More time gives investors more information
about a startup's trajectory, and it also tends to make startups
more pliable in negotiations, since they're usually short of money.These conventions weren't designed to drag out the funding process,
but that's why they're allowed to persist.  Slowness is to the
advantage of investors, who have in the past been the ones with the
most power.  But there is no need for rounds to take months or even
weeks to close, and once founders realize that, it's going to stop.
Not just in angel rounds, but in series A rounds too.  The future
is simple deals with standard terms, done quickly.One minor abuse that will get corrected in the process is option
pools.  In a traditional series A round, before the VCs invest they
make the company set aside a block of stock for future hires—usually
between 10 and 30% of the company.  The point is to ensure this
dilution is borne by the existing shareholders.  The practice isn't
dishonest; founders know what's going on.  But it makes deals
unnecessarily complicated.  In effect the valuation is 2 numbers.
There's no need to keep doing this.
[13]The final thing founders want is to be able to sell some of
their own stock in later rounds.  This won't be a change, 
because the practice is now quite common.  A lot of investors
hated the idea, but the world hasn't exploded as a result,
so it will happen more, and more openly.SurpriseI've talked here about a bunch of changes that will be forced on
investors as founders become more powerful.  Now the good news:
investors may actually make more money as a result.A couple days ago an interviewer 
asked 
me if founders having more
power would be better or worse for the world.  I was surprised,
because I'd never considered that question.  Better or worse, it's
happening.  But after a second's reflection, the answer seemed
obvious.  Founders understand their companies better than investors,
and it has to be better if the people with more knowledge have more
power.One of the mistakes novice pilots make is overcontrolling the
aircraft: applying corrections too vigorously, so the aircraft
oscillates about the desired configuration instead of approaching
it asymptotically.  It seems probable that investors have till now
on average been overcontrolling their portfolio companies.  In a
lot of startups, the biggest source of stress for the founders is
not competitors but investors.  Certainly it was for us at Viaweb.
And this is not a new phenomenon: investors were James Watt's biggest
problem too.   If having less power prevents investors from
overcontrolling startups, it should be better not just for founders
but for investors too.Investors may end up with less stock per startup, but startups will
probably do better with founders more in control, and there will
almost certainly be more of them.  Investors all compete with one
another for deals, but they aren't one another's main competitor.
Our main competitor is employers.  And so far that competitor is
crushing us.  Only a tiny fraction of people who could start a
startup do.  Nearly all customers choose the competing product, a
job.  Why?  Well, let's look at the product we're offering.  An
unbiased review would go something like this:

  Starting a startup gives you more freedom and the opportunity to
  make a lot more money than a job, but it's also hard work and at
  times very stressful.

Much of the stress comes from dealing with investors.  If reforming
the investment process removed that stress, we'd make our product
much more attractive.  The kind of people who make good startup
founders don't mind dealing with technical problems—they enjoy
technical problems—but they hate the type of problems investors
cause.Investors have no
idea that when they maltreat one startup, they're preventing 10
others from happening, but they are.  Indirectly, but they are.  So
when investors stop trying to squeeze a little more out of their
existing deals, they'll find they're net ahead, because so many
more new deals appear.One of our axioms at Y Combinator is not to think of deal flow as
a zero-sum game.  Our main focus is to encourage more startups to happen,
not to win a larger share of the existing stream.  We've found this
principle very useful, and we think as it spreads outward it will
help later stage investors as well."Make something people want"
applies to us too.Notes[1]
In this essay I'm talking mainly about software startups.
These points don't apply to types of startups that are still expensive
to start, e.g. in energy or biotech.Even the cheap kinds of startups will generally raise large amounts
at some point, when they want to hire a lot of people.  What has
changed is how much they can get done before that.[2]
It's not the distribution of good startups that has a power
law dropoff, but the distribution of potentially good startups,
which is to say, good deals.  There are lots of potential winners,
from which a few actual winners emerge with superlinear certainty.[3]
As I was writing this, I asked some founders who'd taken
series A rounds from top VC funds whether it was worth it, and they
unanimously said yes.The quality of investor is more important than the type of round,
though.  I'd take an angel round from good angels over a series A
from a mediocre VC.[4]
Founders also worry that taking an angel investment from a
VC means they'll look bad if the VC declines to participate in the
next round.  The trend of VC angel investing is so new that it's
hard to say how justified this worry is.Another danger, pointed out by Mitch Kapor, is that if VCs are only
doing angel deals to generate series A deal flow, then their
incentives aren't aligned with the founders'.  The founders want
the valuation of the next round to be high, and the VCs want it to
be low.  Again, hard to say yet how much of a problem this will be.[5]
Josh Kopelman pointed out that another way to be on fewer
boards at once is to take board seats for shorter periods.[6]
Google was in this respect as so many others the pattern for
the future.  It would be great for VCs if the similarity extended
to returns.  That's probably too much to hope for, but the returns
may be somewhat higher, as I explain later.[7]
Doing a rolling close doesn't mean the company is always
raising money.  That would be a distraction.  The point of a rolling
close is to make fundraising take less time, not more.  With a
classic fixed sized round, you don't get any money till all the
investors agree, and that often creates a situation where they all
sit waiting for the others to act.  A rolling close usually prevents
this.
[8]
There are two (non-exclusive) causes of hot deals: the quality
of the company, and domino effects among investors.  The former is
obviously a better predictor of success.[9]
Some of the randomness is concealed by the fact that investment
is a self fulfilling prophecy.[10]
The shift in power to founders is exaggerated now because
it's a seller's market.  On the next downtick it will seem like I
overstated the case.  But on the next uptick after that, founders
will seem more powerful than ever.[11]
More generally, it will become less common for the same
investor to invest in successive rounds, except when exercising an
option to maintain their percentage.  When the same investor invests
in successive rounds, it often means the startup isn't getting
market price.  They may not care; they may prefer to work with an
investor they already know; but as the investment market becomes
more efficient, it will become increasingly easy to get market price
if they want it.  Which in turn means the investment community will
tend to become more stratified.[12]
The two 10 minuteses have 3 weeks between them so founders
can get cheap plane tickets, but except for that they could be
adjacent.[13]
I'm not saying option pools themselves will go away.  They're
an administrative convenience.  What will go away is investors
requiring them.Thanks to Sam Altman, John Bautista, Trevor Blackwell,
Paul Buchheit, Jeff Clavier,
Patrick Collison, Ron Conway, Matt Cohler, Chris Dixon, Mitch Kapor,
Josh Kopelman, Pete Koomen, Carolynn Levy, Jessica Livingston, Ariel
Poler, Geoff Ralston, Naval Ravikant, Dan Siroker, Harj Taggar, and 
Fred Wilson
for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

July 2010What hard liquor, cigarettes, heroin, and crack have in common is
that they're all more concentrated forms of less addictive predecessors.
Most if not all the things we describe as addictive are.  And the
scary thing is, the process that created them is accelerating.We wouldn't want to stop it.  It's the same process that cures
diseases: technological progress.  Technological progress means
making things do more of what we want.  When the thing we want is
something we want to want, we consider technological progress good.
If some new technique makes solar cells x% more efficient, that
seems strictly better.  When progress concentrates something we
don't want to want — when it transforms opium into heroin — it seems
bad.  But it's the same process at work.
[1]No one doubts this process is accelerating, which means increasing
numbers of things we like will be transformed into things we like
too much.
[2]As far as I know there's no word for something we like too much.
The closest is the colloquial sense of "addictive." That usage has
become increasingly common during my lifetime. And it's clear why:
there are an increasing number of things we need it for. At the
extreme end of the spectrum are crack and meth. Food has been
transformed by a combination of factory farming and innovations in
food processing into something with way more immediate bang for the
buck, and you can see the results in any town in America. Checkers
and solitaire have been replaced by World of Warcraft and FarmVille.
TV has become much more engaging, and even so it can't compete with Facebook.The world is more addictive than it was 40 years ago.   And unless
the forms of technological progress that produced these things are
subject to different laws than technological progress in general,
the world will get more addictive in the next 40 years than it did
in the last 40.The next 40 years will bring us some wonderful things.  I don't
mean to imply they're all to be avoided.  Alcohol is a dangerous
drug, but I'd rather live in a world with wine than one without.
Most people can coexist with alcohol; but you have to be careful.
More things we like will mean more things we have to be careful
about.Most people won't, unfortunately.  Which means that as the world
becomes more addictive, the two senses in which one can live a
normal life will be driven ever further apart.  One sense of "normal"
is statistically normal: what everyone else does.  The other is the
sense we mean when we talk about the normal operating range of a
piece of machinery: what works best.These two senses are already quite far apart.  Already someone
trying to live well would seem eccentrically abstemious in most of
the US.  That phenomenon is only going to become more pronounced.
You can probably take it as a rule of thumb from now on that if
people don't think you're weird, you're living badly.Societies eventually develop antibodies to addictive new things.
I've seen that happen with cigarettes.  When cigarettes first
appeared, they spread the way an infectious disease spreads through
a previously isolated population.  Smoking rapidly became a
(statistically) normal thing.  There were ashtrays everywhere.  We
had ashtrays in our house when I was a kid, even though neither of
my parents smoked.  You had to for guests.As knowledge spread about the dangers of smoking, customs changed.
In the last 20 years, smoking has been transformed from something
that seemed totally normal into a rather seedy habit: from something
movie stars did in publicity shots to something small huddles of
addicts do outside the doors of office buildings.  A lot of the
change was due to legislation, of course, but the legislation
couldn't have happened if customs hadn't already changed.It took a while though—on the order of 100 years.  And unless the
rate at which social antibodies evolve can increase to match the
accelerating rate at which technological progress throws off new
addictions, we'll be increasingly unable to rely on customs to
protect us.
[3]
Unless we want to be canaries in the coal mine
of each new addiction—the people whose sad example becomes a
lesson to future generations—we'll have to figure out for ourselves
what to avoid and how.  It will actually become a reasonable strategy
(or a more reasonable strategy) to suspect 
everything new.In fact, even that won't be enough.  We'll have to worry not just
about new things, but also about existing things becoming more
addictive.  That's what bit me.  I've avoided most addictions, but
the Internet got me because it became addictive while I was using
it.
[4]Most people I know have problems with Internet addiction.  We're
all trying to figure out our own customs for getting free of it.
That's why I don't have an iPhone, for example; the last thing I
want is for the Internet to follow me out into the world.
[5]
My latest trick is taking long hikes.  I used to think running was a
better form of exercise than hiking because it took less time.  Now
the slowness of hiking seems an advantage, because the longer I
spend on the trail, the longer I have to think without interruption.Sounds pretty eccentric, doesn't it?  It always will when you're
trying to solve problems where there are no customs yet to guide
you.  Maybe I can't plead Occam's razor; maybe I'm simply eccentric.
But if I'm right about the acceleration of addictiveness, then this
kind of lonely squirming to avoid it will increasingly be the fate
of anyone who wants to get things done.  We'll increasingly be
defined by what we say no to.Notes[1]
Could you restrict technological progress to areas where you
wanted it?  Only in a limited way, without becoming a police state.
And even then your restrictions would have undesirable side effects.
"Good" and "bad" technological progress aren't sharply differentiated,
so you'd find you couldn't slow the latter without also slowing the
former.  And in any case, as Prohibition and the "war on drugs"
show, bans often do more harm than good.[2]
Technology has always been accelerating.  By Paleolithic
standards, technology evolved at a blistering pace in the Neolithic
period.[3]
Unless we mass produce social customs.  I suspect the recent
resurgence of evangelical Christianity in the US is partly a reaction
to drugs.  In desperation people reach for the sledgehammer; if
their kids won't listen to them, maybe they'll listen to God.  But
that solution has broader consequences than just getting kids to
say no to drugs.  You end up saying no to 
science as well.
I worry we may be heading for a future in which only a few people
plot their own itinerary through no-land, while everyone else books
a package tour.  Or worse still, has one booked for them by the
government.[4]
People commonly use the word "procrastination" to describe
what they do on the Internet.  It seems to me too mild to describe
what's happening as merely not-doing-work.  We don't call it
procrastination when someone gets drunk instead of working.[5]
Several people have told me they like the iPad because it
lets them bring the Internet into situations where a laptop would
be too conspicuous.  In other words, it's a hip flask.  (This is
true of the iPhone too, of course, but this advantage isn't as
obvious because it reads as a phone, and everyone's used to those.)Thanks to Sam Altman, Patrick Collison, Jessica Livingston, and
Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

July 2010When we sold our startup in 1998 I suddenly got a lot of money.  I
now had to think about something I hadn't had to think about before:
how not to lose it.   I knew it was possible to go from rich to
poor, just as it was possible to go from poor to rich.  But while
I'd spent a lot of the past several years studying the paths from
poor to rich, 
I knew practically nothing about the paths from rich
to poor.  Now, in order to avoid them, I had to learn where they
were.So I started to pay attention to how fortunes are lost.  If you'd
asked me as a kid how rich people became poor, I'd have said by
spending all their money.  That's how it happens in books and movies,
because that's the colorful way to do it.  But in fact the way most
fortunes are lost is not through excessive expenditure, but through
bad investments.It's hard to spend a fortune without noticing.  Someone with ordinary
tastes would find it hard to blow through more than a few tens of
thousands of dollars without thinking "wow, I'm spending a lot of
money."  Whereas if you start trading derivatives, you can lose a
million dollars (as much as you want, really) in the blink of an
eye.In most people's minds, spending money on luxuries sets off alarms
that making investments doesn't.  Luxuries seem self-indulgent.
And unless you got the money by inheriting it or winning a lottery,
you've already been thoroughly trained that self-indulgence leads
to trouble.  Investing bypasses those alarms.  You're not spending
the money; you're just moving it from one asset to another.  Which
is why people trying to sell you expensive things say "it's an
investment."The solution is to develop new alarms.  This can be a tricky business,
because while the alarms that prevent you from overspending are so
basic that they may even be in our DNA, the ones that prevent you
from making bad investments have to be learned, and are sometimes
fairly counterintuitive.A few days ago I realized something surprising: the situation with
time is much the same as with money.  The most dangerous way to
lose time is not to spend it having fun, but to spend it doing fake
work.  When you spend time having fun, you know you're being
self-indulgent.  Alarms start to go off fairly quickly.  If I woke
up one morning and sat down on the sofa and watched TV all day, I'd
feel like something was terribly wrong.  Just thinking about it
makes me wince.  I'd start to feel uncomfortable after sitting on
a sofa watching TV for 2 hours, let alone a whole day.And yet I've definitely had days when I might as well have sat in
front of a TV all day — days at the end of which, if I asked myself
what I got done that day, the answer would have been: basically,
nothing.  I feel bad after these days too, but nothing like as bad
as I'd feel if I spent the whole day on the sofa watching TV.  If
I spent a whole day watching TV I'd feel like I was descending into
perdition.  But the same alarms don't go off on the days when I get
nothing done, because I'm doing stuff that seems, superficially,
like real work.  Dealing with email, for example.  You do it sitting
at a desk.  It's not fun.  So it must be work.With time, as with money, avoiding pleasure is no longer enough to
protect you.  It probably was enough to protect hunter-gatherers,
and perhaps all pre-industrial societies.  So nature and nurture
combine to make us avoid self-indulgence. But the world has gotten
more complicated: the most dangerous traps now are new behaviors
that bypass our alarms about self-indulgence by mimicking more
virtuous types.  And the worst thing is, they're not even fun.Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, Patrick Collison, Jessica
Livingston, and Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


April 2010The best way to come up with startup ideas is to ask yourself the
question: what do you wish someone would make for you?There are two types of startup ideas: those that grow organically
out of your own life, and those that you decide, from afar, are
going to be necessary to some class of users other than you.  Apple
was the first type.  Apple happened because Steve Wozniak wanted a
computer.  Unlike most people who wanted computers, he could design
one, so he did.  And since lots of other people wanted the same
thing, Apple was able to sell enough of them to get the company
rolling.  They still rely on this principle today, incidentally.
The iPhone is the phone Steve Jobs wants.
[1]Our own startup, Viaweb, was of the second type.  We made software
for building online stores.  We didn't need this software ourselves.
We weren't direct marketers.  We didn't even know when we started
that our users were called "direct marketers."  But we were
comparatively old when we started the company (I was 30 and Robert
Morris was 29), so we'd seen enough to know users would need this
type of software.
[2]There is no sharp line between the two types of ideas, but
the most successful startups seem to be closer to the Apple type
than the Viaweb type.  When he was writing that first Basic interpreter
for the Altair, Bill Gates was writing something he would use, as
were Larry and Sergey when they wrote the first versions of Google.Organic ideas are generally preferable to the made up kind, but
particularly so when the founders are young.  It takes experience
to predict what other people will want.  The worst ideas we see at
Y Combinator are from young founders making things they think other
people will want.So if you want to start a startup and don't know yet what you're
going to do, I'd encourage you to focus initially on organic ideas.
What's missing or broken in your daily life?  Sometimes if you just
ask that question you'll get immediate answers.  It must have seemed
obviously broken to Bill Gates that you could only program the
Altair in machine language.You may need to stand outside yourself a bit to see brokenness,
because you tend to get used to it and take it for granted.  You
can be sure it's there, though.  There are always great ideas sitting
right under our noses.  In 2004 it was ridiculous that Harvard
undergrads were still using a Facebook printed on paper.  Surely
that sort of thing should have been online.There are ideas that obvious lying around now.  The reason you're
overlooking them is the same reason you'd have overlooked the idea
of building Facebook in 2004: organic startup ideas usually don't
seem like startup ideas at first.  We know now that Facebook was
very successful, but put yourself back in 2004.  Putting undergraduates'
profiles online wouldn't have seemed like much of a startup idea.
And in fact, it wasn't initially a startup idea.  When Mark spoke
at a YC dinner this winter he said he wasn't trying to start a
company when he wrote the first version of Facebook.  It was just
a project.  So was the Apple I when Woz first started working on
it.  He didn't think he was starting a company.  If these guys had
thought they were starting companies, they might have been tempted
to do something more "serious," and that would have been a mistake.So if you want to come up with organic startup ideas, I'd encourage
you to focus more on the idea part and less on the startup part.
Just fix things that seem broken, regardless of whether it seems
like the problem is important enough to build a company on.  If you
keep pursuing such threads it would be hard not to end up making
something of value to a lot of people, and when you do, surprise,
you've got a company.
[3]Don't be discouraged if what you produce initially is something
other people dismiss as a toy.  In fact, that's a good sign.
That's probably why everyone else has been overlooking the idea.  The first
microcomputers were dismissed as toys.  And the first planes, and
the first cars.  At this point, when someone comes to us with
something that users like but that we could envision forum trolls
dismissing as a toy, it makes us especially likely to invest.While young founders are at a disadvantage when coming up with
made-up ideas, they're the best source of organic ones, because
they're at the forefront of technology.  They use the latest stuff.
They only just decided what to use, so why wouldn't they?  And
because they use the latest stuff, they're in a position to discover
valuable types of fixable brokenness first.There's nothing more valuable than an unmet need that is just
becoming fixable.  If you find something broken that you can fix
for a lot of people, you've found a gold mine.  As with an actual
gold mine, you still have to work hard to get the gold out of it.
But at least you know where the seam is, and that's the hard part.Notes[1]
This suggests a way to predict areas where Apple will be weak:
things Steve Jobs doesn't use.  E.g. I doubt he is much into gaming.
[2]
In retrospect, we should have become direct marketers.  If
I were doing Viaweb again, I'd open our own online store.  If we
had, we'd have understood users a lot better.  I'd encourage anyone
starting a startup to become one of its users, however unnatural it
seems.[3]
Possible exception: It's hard to compete directly with open source software.
You can build things for programmers, but there has to be some part
you can charge for.Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, and Jessica Livingston
for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


November 2009I don't think Apple realizes how badly the App Store approval process
is broken.  Or rather, I don't think they realize how much it matters
that it's broken.The way Apple runs the App Store has harmed their reputation with
programmers more than anything else they've ever done. 
Their reputation with programmers used to be great.
It used to be the most common complaint you heard
about Apple was that their fans admired them too uncritically.
The App Store has changed that.  Now a lot of programmers
have started to see Apple as evil.How much of the goodwill Apple once had with programmers have they
lost over the App Store?  A third?  Half?  And that's just so far.
The App Store is an ongoing karma leak.* * *How did Apple get into this mess?  Their fundamental problem is
that they don't understand software.They treat iPhone apps the way they treat the music they sell through
iTunes.  Apple is the channel; they own the user; if you want to
reach users, you do it on their terms. The record labels agreed,
reluctantly.  But this model doesn't work for software.  It doesn't
work for an intermediary to own the user.  The software business
learned that in the early 1980s, when companies like VisiCorp showed
that although the words "software" and "publisher" fit together,
the underlying concepts don't.  Software isn't like music or books.
It's too complicated for a third party to act as an intermediary
between developer and user.   And yet that's what Apple is trying
to be with the App Store: a software publisher.  And a particularly
overreaching one at that, with fussy tastes and a rigidly enforced
house style.If software publishing didn't work in 1980, it works even less now
that software development has evolved from a small number of big
releases to a constant stream of small ones.  But Apple doesn't
understand that either.  Their model of product development derives
from hardware.  They work on something till they think it's finished,
then they release it.  You have to do that with hardware, but because
software is so easy to change, its design can benefit from evolution.
The standard way to develop applications now is to launch fast and
iterate.  Which means it's a disaster to have long, random delays
each time you release a new version.Apparently Apple's attitude is that developers should be more careful
when they submit a new version to the App Store.  They would say
that.  But powerful as they are, they're not powerful enough to
turn back the evolution of technology.  Programmers don't use
launch-fast-and-iterate out of laziness.  They use it because it
yields the best results.  By obstructing that process, Apple is
making them do bad work, and programmers hate that as much as Apple
would.How would Apple like it if when they discovered a serious bug in
OS X, instead of releasing a software update immediately, they had
to submit their code to an intermediary who sat on it for a month
and then rejected it because it contained an icon they didn't like?By breaking software development, Apple gets the opposite of what
they intended: the version of an app currently available in the App
Store tends to be an old and buggy one.  One developer told me:

  As a result of their process, the App Store is full of half-baked
  applications. I make a new version almost every day that I release
  to beta users. The version on the App Store feels old and crappy.
  I'm sure that a lot of developers feel this way: One emotion is
  "I'm not really proud about what's in the App Store", and it's
  combined with the emotion "Really, it's Apple's fault."

Another wrote:

  I believe that they think their approval process helps users by
  ensuring quality.  In reality, bugs like ours get through all the
  time and then it can take 4-8 weeks to get that bug fix approved,
  leaving users to think that iPhone apps sometimes just don't work.
  Worse for Apple, these apps work just fine on other platforms
  that have immediate approval processes.

Actually I suppose Apple has a third misconception: that all the
complaints about App Store approvals are not a serious problem.
They must hear developers complaining.  But partners and suppliers
are always complaining.  It would be a bad sign if they weren't;
it would mean you were being too easy on them.  Meanwhile the iPhone
is selling better than ever.  So why do they need to fix anything?They get away with maltreating developers, in the short term, because
they make such great hardware.  I just bought a new 27" iMac a
couple days ago.  It's fabulous.  The screen's too shiny, and the
disk is surprisingly loud, but it's so beautiful that you can't
make yourself care.So I bought it, but I bought it, for the first time, with misgivings.
I felt the way I'd feel buying something made in a country with a
bad human rights record.  That was new.  In the past when I bought
things from Apple it was an unalloyed pleasure.  Oh boy!  They make
such great stuff.  This time it felt like a Faustian bargain.  They
make such great stuff, but they're such assholes.  Do I really want
to support this company?* * *Should Apple care what people like me think?  What difference does
it make if they alienate a small minority of their users?There are a couple reasons they should care.  One is that these
users are the people they want as employees.  If your company seems
evil, the best programmers won't work for you.  That hurt Microsoft
a lot starting in the 90s.  Programmers started to feel sheepish
about working there.  It seemed like selling out.  When people from
Microsoft were talking to other programmers and they mentioned where
they worked, there were a lot of self-deprecating jokes about having
gone over to the dark side.  But the real problem for Microsoft
wasn't the embarrassment of the people they hired.  It was the
people they never got.  And you know who got them?  Google and
Apple.  If Microsoft was the Empire, they were the Rebel Alliance.
And it's largely because they got more of the best people that
Google and Apple are doing so much better than Microsoft today.Why are programmers so fussy about their employers' morals?  Partly
because they can afford to be.  The best programmers can work
wherever they want.  They don't have to work for a company they
have qualms about.But the other reason programmers are fussy, I think, is that evil
begets stupidity.  An organization that wins by exercising power
starts to lose the ability to win by doing better work.  And it's
not fun for a smart person to work in a place where the best ideas
aren't the ones that win.  I think the reason Google embraced "Don't
be evil" so eagerly was not so much to impress the outside world
as to inoculate themselves against arrogance.
[1]That has worked for Google so far.  They've become more
bureaucratic, but otherwise they seem to have held true to their
original principles. With Apple that seems less the case.  When you
look at the famous 
1984 ad 
now, it's easier to imagine Apple as the
dictator on the screen than the woman with the hammer.
[2]
In fact, if you read the dictator's speech it sounds uncannily like a
prophecy of the App Store.

  We have triumphed over the unprincipled dissemination of facts.We have created, for the first time in all history, a garden of
  pure ideology, where each worker may bloom secure from the pests
  of contradictory and confusing truths.

The other reason Apple should care what programmers think of them
is that when you sell a platform, developers make or break you.  If
anyone should know this, Apple should.  VisiCalc made the Apple II.And programmers build applications for the platforms they use.  Most
applications—most startups, probably—grow out of personal projects.
Apple itself did.  Apple made microcomputers because that's what
Steve Wozniak wanted for himself.  He couldn't have afforded a
minicomputer. 
[3]
 Microsoft likewise started out making interpreters
for little microcomputers because
Bill Gates and Paul Allen were interested in using them.  It's a
rare startup that doesn't build something the founders use.The main reason there are so many iPhone apps is that so many programmers
have iPhones.  They may know, because they read it in an article,
that Blackberry has such and such market share.  But in practice
it's as if RIM didn't exist. If they're going to build something,
they want to be able to use it themselves, and that means building
an iPhone app.So programmers continue to develop iPhone apps, even though Apple
continues to maltreat them.  They're like someone stuck in an abusive
relationship.  They're so attracted to the iPhone that they can't
leave.  But they're looking for a way out.  One wrote:

  While I did enjoy developing for the iPhone, the control they
  place on the App Store does not give me the drive to develop
  applications as I would like. In fact I don't intend to make any
  more iPhone applications unless absolutely necessary.
[4]

Can anything break this cycle?  No device I've seen so far could.
Palm and RIM haven't a hope.  The only credible contender is Android.
But Android is an orphan; Google doesn't really care about it, not
the way Apple cares about the iPhone.  Apple cares about the iPhone
the way Google cares about search.* * *Is the future of handheld devices one locked down by Apple?  It's
a worrying prospect.  It would be a bummer to have another grim
monoculture like we had in the 1990s.  In 1995, writing software
for end users was effectively identical with writing Windows
applications.  Our horror at that prospect was the single biggest
thing that drove us to start building web apps.At least we know now what it would take to break Apple's lock.
You'd have to get iPhones out of programmers' hands.  If programmers
used some other device for mobile web access, they'd start to develop
apps for that instead.How could you make a device programmers liked better than the iPhone?
It's unlikely you could make something better designed.  Apple
leaves no room there.  So this alternative device probably couldn't
win on general appeal.  It would have to win by virtue of some
appeal it had to programmers specifically.One way to appeal to programmers is with software.  If you
could think of an application programmers had to have, but that
would be impossible in the circumscribed world of the iPhone, 
you could presumably get them to switch.That would definitely happen if programmers started to use handhelds
as development machines—if handhelds displaced laptops the
way laptops displaced desktops.  You need more control of a development
machine than Apple will let you have over an iPhone.Could anyone make a device that you'd carry around in your pocket
like a phone, and yet would also work as a development machine?
It's hard to imagine what it would look like.  But I've learned
never to say never about technology.  A phone-sized device that
would work as a development machine is no more miraculous by present
standards than the iPhone itself would have seemed by the standards
of 1995.My current development machine is a MacBook Air, which I use with
an external monitor and keyboard in my office, and by itself when
traveling.  If there was a version half the size I'd prefer it.
That still wouldn't be small enough to carry around everywhere like
a phone, but we're within a factor of 4 or so.  Surely that gap is
bridgeable.  In fact, let's make it an
RFS. Wanted: 
Woman with hammer.Notes[1]
When Google adopted "Don't be evil," they were still so small
that no one would have expected them to be, yet.
[2]
The dictator in the 1984 ad isn't Microsoft, incidentally;
it's IBM.  IBM seemed a lot more frightening in those days, but
they were friendlier to developers than Apple is now.[3]
He couldn't even afford a monitor.  That's why the Apple
I used a TV as a monitor.[4]
Several people I talked to mentioned how much they liked the
iPhone SDK.  The problem is not Apple's products but their policies.
Fortunately policies are software; Apple can change them instantly
if they want to.  Handy that, isn't it?Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, Ross Boucher, 
James Bracy, Gabor Cselle,
Patrick Collison, Jason Freedman, John Gruber, Joe Hewitt, Jessica Livingston,
Robert Morris, Teng Siong Ong, Nikhil Pandit, Savraj Singh, and Jared Tame for reading drafts of this.Russian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


October 2009(This  essay is derived from a talk at the 2009 Startup School.)I wasn't sure what to talk about at Startup School, so I decided
to ask the founders of the startups we'd funded.  What hadn't I
written about yet?I'm in the unusual position of being able to test the essays I write
about startups.  I hope the ones on other topics are right, but I
have no way to test them.  The ones on startups get tested by about
70 people every 6 months.So I sent all the founders an email asking what surprised them about
starting a startup.  This amounts to asking what I got wrong, because
if I'd explained things well enough, nothing should have surprised
them.I'm proud to report I got one response saying:

    What surprised me the most is that everything was actually
    fairly predictable!

The bad news is that I got over 100 other responses listing the
surprises they encountered.There were very clear patterns in the responses; it was remarkable
how often several people had been surprised by exactly the same
thing.  These were the biggest:1. Be Careful with CofoundersThis was the surprise mentioned by the most founders.  There were
two types of responses: that you have to be careful who you pick
as a cofounder, and that you have to work hard to maintain your
relationship.What people wished they'd paid more attention to when choosing
cofounders was character and commitment, not ability.  This was
particularly true with startups that failed.  The lesson: don't
pick cofounders who will flake.Here's a typical reponse:

    You haven't seen someone's true colors unless you've worked
    with them on a startup.

The reason character is so important is that it's tested more
severely than in most other situations.  One founder said explicitly
that the relationship between founders was more important than
ability:

    I would rather cofound a startup with a friend than a stranger
    with higher output.  Startups are so hard and emotional that
    the bonds and emotional and social support that come with
    friendship outweigh the extra output lost.

We learned this lesson a long time ago.  If you look at the YC
application, there are more questions about the commitment and
relationship of the founders than their ability.Founders of successful startups talked less about choosing cofounders
and more about how hard they worked to maintain their relationship.

    One thing that surprised me is how the relationship of startup
    founders goes from a friendship to a marriage.  My relationship
    with my cofounder went from just being friends to seeing each
    other all the time, fretting over the finances and cleaning up
    shit. And the startup was our baby.  I summed it up once like
    this: "It's like we're married, but we're not fucking."

Several people used that word "married."  It's a far more intense
relationship than you usually see between coworkers—partly because
the stresses are so much greater, and partly because at first the
founders are the whole company.  So this relationship has to be
built of top quality materials and carefully maintained.  It's the
basis of everything.2. Startups Take Over Your LifeJust as the relationship between cofounders is more intense than
it usually is between coworkers, so is the relationship between the
founders and the company.  Running a startup is not like having a
job or being a student, because it never stops.  This is so foreign
to most people's experience that they don't get it till it happens.
[1]

    I didn't realize I would spend almost every waking moment either
    working or thinking about our startup.  You enter a whole
    different way of life when it's your company vs. working for
    someone else's company.

It's exacerbated by the fast pace of startups, which makes it seem
like time slows down:

    I think the thing that's been most surprising to me is how one's
    perspective on time shifts. Working on our startup, I remember
    time seeming to stretch out, so that a month was a huge interval.

In the best case, total immersion can be exciting:

    It's surprising how much you become consumed by your startup,
    in that you think about it day and night, but never once does
    it feel like "work."

Though I have to say, that quote is from someone we funded this
summer.  In a couple years he may not sound so chipper.3. It's an Emotional Roller-coasterThis was another one lots of people were surprised about.  The ups
and downs were more extreme than they were prepared for.In a startup, things seem great one moment and hopeless the next.
And by next, I mean a couple hours later.

    The emotional ups and downs were the biggest surprise for me.
    One day, we'd think of ourselves as the next Google and dream
    of buying islands; the next, we'd be pondering how to let our
    loved ones know of our utter failure; and on and on.

The hard part, obviously, is the lows.  For a lot of founders that
was the big surprise:

    How hard it is to keep everyone motivated during rough days or
    weeks, i.e. how low the lows can be.

After a while, if you don't have significant success to cheer you
up, it wears you out:

    Your most basic advice to founders is "just don't die," but the
    energy to keep a company going in lieu of unburdening success
    isn't free; it is siphoned from the founders themselves.

There's a limit to how much you can take.  If you get to the point
where you can't keep working anymore, it's not the end of the world.
Plenty of famous founders have had some failures along the way.4. It Can Be FunThe good news is, the highs are also very high.  Several founders
said what surprised them most about doing a startup was how fun it
was:

    I think you've left out just how fun it is to do a startup. I
    am more fulfilled in my work than pretty much any of my friends
    who did not start companies.

What they like most is the freedom:

    I'm surprised by how much better it feels to be working on
    something that is challenging and creative, something I believe
    in, as opposed to the hired-gun stuff I was doing before.  I
    knew it would feel better; what's surprising is how much better.

Frankly, though, if I've misled people here, I'm not eager to fix
that.  I'd rather have everyone think starting a startup is grim
and hard than have founders go into it expecting it to be fun, and
a few months later saying "This is supposed to be fun? Are you
kidding?"The truth is, it wouldn't be fun for most people.  A lot of what
we try to do in the application process is to weed out the people
who wouldn't like it, both for our sake and theirs.The best way to put it might be that starting a startup is fun the
way a survivalist training course would be fun, if you're into that
sort of thing.  Which is to say, not at all, if you're not.5. Persistence Is the KeyA lot of founders were surprised how important persistence was in
startups. It was both a negative and a positive surprise: they were
surprised both by the degree of persistence required

    Everyone said how determined and resilient you must be, but
    going through it made me realize that the determination required
    was still understated.

and also by the degree to which persistence alone was able to
dissolve obstacles:

    If you are persistent, even problems that seem out of your
    control (i.e. immigration) seem to work themselves out.

Several founders mentioned specifically how much more important
persistence was than intelligence.

    I've been surprised again and again by just how much more
    important persistence is than raw intelligence.

This applies not just to intelligence but to ability in general,
and that's why so many people said character was more important in
choosing cofounders.6. Think Long-TermYou need persistence because everything takes longer than you expect.
A lot of people were surprised by that.

    I'm continually surprised by how long everything can take.
    Assuming your product doesn't experience the explosive growth
    that very few products do, everything from development to
    dealmaking (especially dealmaking) seems to take 2-3x longer
    than I always imagine.

One reason founders are surprised is that because they work fast,
they expect everyone else to.   There's a shocking amount of shear
stress at every point where a startup touches a more bureaucratic
organization, like a big company or a VC fund.  That's why fundraising
and the enterprise market kill and maim so many startups.  
[2]But I think the reason most founders are surprised by how long it
takes is that they're overconfident.  They think they're going to
be an instant success, like YouTube or Facebook.  You tell them
only 1 out of 100 successful startups has a trajectory like that,
and they all think "we're going to be that 1."Maybe they'll listen to one of the more successful founders:

    The top thing I didn't understand before going into it is that
    persistence is the name of the game. For the vast majority of
    startups that become successful, it's going to be a really
    long journey, at least 3 years and probably 5+.

There is a positive side to thinking longer-term.  It's not just
that you have to resign yourself to everything taking longer than
it should.  If you work patiently it's less stressful, and you can
do better work:

    Because we're relaxed, it's so much easier to have fun doing
    what we do. Gone is the awkward nervous energy fueled by the
    desperate need to not fail guiding our actions. We can concentrate
    on doing what's best for our company, product, employees and
    customers.

That's why things get so much better when you hit ramen profitability.
You can shift into a different mode of working.7. Lots of Little ThingsWe often emphasize how rarely startups win simply because they hit
on some magic idea.  I think founders have now gotten that into
their heads.  But a lot were surprised to find this also applies
within startups.  You have to do lots of different things:

    It's much more of a grind than glamorous. A timeslice selected
    at random would more likely find me tracking down a weird DLL
    loading bug on Swedish Windows, or tracking down a bug in the
    financial model Excel spreadsheet the night before a board
    meeting, rather than having brilliant flashes of strategic
    insight.

Most hacker-founders would like to spend all their time programming.
You won't get to, unless you fail.  Which can be transformed into:
If you spend all your time programming, you will fail.The principle extends even into programming.  There is rarely a
single brilliant hack that ensures success:

    I learnt never to bet on any one feature or deal or anything
    to bring you success. It is never a single thing.  Everything
    is just incremental and you just have to keep doing lots of
    those things until you strike something.

Even in the rare cases where a clever hack makes your fortune, you
probably won't know till later:

    There is no such thing as a killer feature. Or at least you
    won't know what it is.

So the best strategy is to try lots of different things.  The reason
not to put all your eggs in one basket is not the usual one,
which applies even when you know which basket is best.  In a startup
you don't even know that.8. Start with Something MinimalLots of founders mentioned how important it was to launch with the
simplest possible thing.  By this point everyone knows you should
release fast and iterate.  It's practically a mantra at YC.  But
even so a lot of people seem to have been burned by not doing it:

    Build the absolute smallest thing that can be considered a
    complete application and ship it.

Why do people take too long on the first version?  Pride, mostly.
They hate to release something that could be better.  They worry
what people will say about them.  But you have to overcome this:

    Doing something "simple" at first glance does not mean you
    aren't doing something meaningful, defensible, or valuable.

Don't worry what people will say.  If your first version is so
impressive that trolls don't make fun of it, you waited too long
to launch.  
[3]One founder said this should be your approach to all programming,
not just startups, and I tend to agree.

    Now, when coding, I try to think "How can I write this such
    that if people saw my code, they'd be amazed at how little there
    is and how little it does?"

Over-engineering is poison.  It's not like doing extra work for
extra credit.  It's more like telling a lie that you then have to
remember so you don't contradict it.9. Engage UsersProduct development is a conversation with the user that doesn't
really start till you launch.  Before you launch, you're like a
police artist before he's shown the first version of his sketch to
the witness.It's so important to launch fast that it may be better to think of
your initial version not as a product, but as a trick for getting
users to start talking to you.

    I learned to think about the initial stages of a startup as a
    giant experiment. All products should be considered experiments,
    and those that have a market show promising results extremely
    quickly.

Once you start talking to users, I guarantee you'll be surprised
by what they tell you.

    When you let customers tell you what they're after, they will
    often reveal amazing details about what they find valuable as
    well what they're willing to pay for.

The surprise is generally positive as well as negative. They won't
like what you've built, but there will be other things they would
like that would be trivially easy to implement.  It's not till you
start the conversation by launching the wrong thing that they can
express (or perhaps even realize) what they're looking for.10. Change Your IdeaTo benefit from engaging with users you have to be willing to change
your idea.  We've always encouraged founders to see a startup idea
as a hypothesis rather than a blueprint.  And yet they're still
surprised how well it works to change the idea.

    Normally if you complain about something being hard, the general
    advice is to work harder.  With a startup, I think you should
    find a problem that's easy for you to solve.  Optimizing in
    solution-space is familiar and straightforward, but you can
    make enormous gains playing around in problem-space.

Whereas mere determination, without flexibility, is a greedy algorithm
that may get you nothing more than a mediocre local maximum:

    When someone is determined, there's still a danger that they'll
    follow a long, hard path that ultimately leads nowhere.

You want to push forward, but at the same time twist and turn to
find the most promising path.  One founder put it very succinctly:

    Fast iteration is the key to success.

One reason this advice is so hard to follow is that people don't
realize how hard it is to judge startup ideas, particularly their
own.  Experienced founders learn to keep an open mind:

    Now I don't laugh at ideas anymore, because I realized how
    terrible I was at knowing if they were good or not.

You can never tell what will work.  You just have to do whatever
seems best at each point.  We do this with YC itself.  We still
don't know if it will work, but it seems like a decent hypothesis.11. Don't Worry about CompetitorsWhen you think you've got a great idea, it's sort of like having a
guilty conscience about something.  All someone has to do is look
at you funny, and you think "Oh my God, they know."These alarms are almost always false:

    Companies that seemed like competitors and threats at first
    glance usually never were when you really looked at it. Even
    if they were operating in the same area, they had a different
    goal.

One reason people overreact to competitors is that they overvalue
ideas.  If ideas really were the key, a competitor with the same
idea would be a real threat.  But it's usually execution that
matters:

    All the scares induced by seeing a new competitor pop up are
    forgotten weeks later. It always comes down to your own product
    and approach to the market.

This is generally true even if competitors get lots of attention.

    Competitors riding on lots of good blogger perception aren't
    really the winners and can disappear from the map quickly.  You
    need consumers after all.

Hype doesn't make satisfied users, at least not for something as
complicated as technology.12. It's Hard to Get UsersA lot of founders complained about how hard it was to get users,
though.

    I had no idea how much time and effort needed to go into attaining
    users.

This is a complicated topic.  When you can't get users, it's hard
to say whether the problem is lack of exposure, or whether the
product's simply bad.  Even good products can be blocked by switching
or integration costs:

    Getting people to use a new service is incredibly difficult.
    This is especially true for a service that other companies can
    use, because it requires their developers to do work. If you're
    small, they don't think it is urgent. 
[4]

The sharpest criticism of YC came from a founder who said we didn't
focus enough on customer acquisition:

    YC preaches "make something people want" as an engineering task,
    a never ending stream of feature after feature until enough
    people are happy and the application takes off.  There's very
    little focus on the cost of customer acquisition.

This may be true; this may be something we need to fix, especially
for applications like games.  If you make something where the
challenges are mostly technical, you can rely on word of mouth,
like Google did.  One founder was surprised by how well that worked
for him:

    There is an irrational fear that no one will buy your product.
    But if you work hard and incrementally make it better, there
    is no need to worry.

But with other types of startups you may win less by features and
more by deals and marketing.13. Expect the Worst with DealsDeals fall through.  That's a constant of the startup world.  Startups
are powerless, and good startup ideas generally seem wrong.  So
everyone is nervous about closing deals with you, and you have no
way to make them.This is particularly true with investors:

    In retrospect, it would have been much better if we had operated
    under the assumption that we would never get any additional
    outside investment.  That would have focused us on finding
    revenue streams early.

My advice is generally pessimistic.  Assume you won't get money,
and if someone does offer you any, assume you'll never get any more.

    If someone offers you money, take it. You say it a lot, but I
    think it needs even more emphasizing.  We had the opportunity
    to raise a lot more money than we did last year and I wish we
    had.

Why do founders ignore me?  Mostly because they're optimistic by
nature.  The mistake is to be optimistic about things you can't
control. By all means be optimistic about your ability to make
something great.  But you're asking for trouble if you're optimistic
about big companies or investors.14. Investors Are CluelessA lot of founders mentioned how surprised they were by the cluelessness
of investors:

    They don't even know about the stuff they've invested in.  I
    met some investors that had invested in a hardware device and
    when I asked them to demo the device they had difficulty switching
    it on.

Angels are a bit better than VCs, because they usually have startup
experience themselves:

    VC investors don't know half the time what they are talking
    about and are years behind in their thinking.  A few were great,
    but 95% of the investors we dealt with were unprofessional,
    didn't seem to be very good at business or have any kind of
    creative vision. Angels were generally much better to talk to.

Why are founders surprised that VCs are clueless?  I think it's
because they seem so formidable.The reason VCs seem formidable is that it's their profession to.
You get to be a VC by convincing asset managers to trust you with
hundreds of millions of dollars.  How do you do that?  You have to
seem confident, and you have to seem like you understand technology.
[5]15. You May Have to Play GamesBecause investors are so bad at judging you, you have to work harder
than you should at selling yourself. One founder said the thing
that surprised him most was

    The degree to which feigning certitude impressed investors.

This is the thing that has surprised me most about YC founders'
experiences.  This summer we invited some of the alumni to talk to
the new startups about fundraising, and pretty much 100% of their
advice was about investor psychology.  I thought I was cynical about
VCs, but the founders were much more cynical.

    A lot of what startup founders do is just posturing.  It works.

VCs themselves have no idea of the extent to which the startups
they like are the ones that are best at selling themselves to VCs.
[6]
It's exactly the same phenomenon we saw a step earlier.  VCs get
money by seeming confident to LPs, and founders get money by seeming
confident to VCs.16. Luck Is a Big FactorWith two such random linkages in the path between startups and
money, it shouldn't be surprising that luck is a big factor in
deals.  And yet a lot of founders are surprised by it.

    I didn't realize how much of a role luck plays and how much is
    outside of our control.

If you think about famous startups, it's pretty clear how big a
role luck plays.  Where would Microsoft be if IBM insisted on an
exclusive license for DOS?Why are founders fooled by this?  Business guys probably aren't,
but hackers are used to a world where skill is paramount, and you
get what you deserve.

    When we started our startup, I had bought the hype of the startup
    founder dream: that this is a game of skill. It is, in some
    ways.  Having skill is valuable. So is being determined as all
    hell. But being lucky is the critical ingredient.

Actually the best model would be to say that the outcome is the
product of skill, determination, and luck.  No matter how much
skill and determination you have, if you roll a zero for luck, the
outcome is zero.These quotes about luck are not from founders whose startups failed.
Founders who fail quickly tend to blame themselves.  Founders who
succeed quickly don't usually realize how lucky they were.  It's
the ones in the middle who see how important luck is.17. The Value of CommunityA surprising number of founders said what surprised them most about
starting a startup was the value of community.  Some meant the
micro-community of YC founders:

    The immense value of the peer group of YC companies, and facing
    similar obstacles at similar times.

which shouldn't be that surprising, because that's why it's structured
that way.  Others were surprised at the value of the startup community
in the larger sense:

    How advantageous it is to live in Silicon Valley, where you
    can't help but hear all the cutting-edge tech and startup news,
    and run into useful people constantly.

The specific thing that surprised them most was the general spirit
of benevolence:

    One of the most surprising things I saw was the willingness of
    people to help us. Even people who had nothing to gain went out
    of their way to help our startup succeed.

and particularly how it extended all the way to the top:

    The surprise for me was how accessible important and interesting
    people are. It's amazing how easily you can reach out to people
    and get immediate feedback.

This is one of the reasons I like being part of this world.  Creating
wealth is not a zero-sum game, so you don't have to stab people in
the back to win.18. You Get No RespectThere was one surprise founders mentioned that I'd forgotten about:
that outside the startup world, startup founders get no respect.

    In social settings, I found that I got a lot more respect when
    I said, "I worked on Microsoft Office" instead of "I work at a
    small startup you've never heard of called x."

Partly this is because the rest of the world just doesn't get
startups, and partly it's yet another consequence of the fact that
most good startup ideas seem bad:

    If you pitch your idea to a random person, 95% of the time
    you'll find the person instinctively thinks the idea will be a
    flop and you're wasting your time (although they probably won't
    say this directly).

Unfortunately this extends even to dating:

    It surprised me that being a startup founder does not get you
    more admiration from women.

I did know about that, but I'd forgotten.19. Things Change as You GrowThe last big surprise founders mentioned is how much things changed
as they grew.  The biggest change was that you got to program even
less:

    Your job description as technical founder/CEO is completely
    rewritten every 6-12 months. Less coding, more
    managing/planning/company building, hiring, cleaning up messes,
    and generally getting things in place for what needs to happen
    a few months from now.

In particular, you now have to deal with employees, who often have
different motivations:

    I knew the founder equation and had been focused on it since I
    knew I wanted to start a startup as a 19 year old.  The employee
    equation is quite different so it took me a while to get it
    down.

Fortunately, it can become a lot less stressful once you reach
cruising altitude:

    I'd say 75% of the stress is gone now from when we first started.
    Running a business is so much more enjoyable now.  We're more
    confident. We're more patient. We fight less. We sleep more.

I wish I could say it was this way for every startup that succeeded,
but 75% is probably on the high side.The Super-PatternThere were a few other patterns, but these were the biggest.  One's
first thought when looking at them all is to ask if there's a
super-pattern, a pattern to the patterns.I saw it immediately, and so did a YC founder I read the list to.
These are supposed to be the surprises, the things I didn't tell
people.  What do they all have in common?  They're all things I
tell people.  If I wrote a new essay with the same outline as this
that wasn't summarizing the founders' responses, everyone would say
I'd run out of ideas and was just repeating myself.What is going on here?When I look at the responses, the common theme is that
starting a startup was like I said, but way more so.  People just
don't seem to get how different it is till they do it.  Why?  The
key to that mystery is to ask, how different from what?  Once you
phrase it that way, the answer is obvious: from a job.  Everyone's
model of work is a job.  It's completely pervasive.  Even if you've
never had a job, your parents probably did, along with practically
every other adult you've met.Unconsciously, everyone expects a startup to be like a job, and
that explains most of the surprises.  It explains why people are
surprised how carefully you have to choose cofounders and how hard
you have to work to maintain your relationship.  You don't have to
do that with coworkers.  It explains why the ups and downs are
surprisingly extreme.  In a job there is much more damping.  But
it also explains why the good times are surprisingly good: most
people can't imagine such freedom.  As you go down the list, almost
all the surprises are surprising in how much a startup differs from
a job.You probably can't overcome anything so pervasive as the model of
work you grew up with.  So the best solution is to be consciously
aware of that.  As you go into a startup, you'll be thinking "everyone
says it's really extreme."  Your next thought will probably be "but
I can't believe it will be that bad."  If you want to avoid being
surprised, the next thought after that should be: "and the reason
I can't believe it will be that bad is that my model of work is a
job."Notes[1]
Graduate students might understand it.  In grad school you
always feel you should be working on your thesis.  It doesn't end
every semester like classes do.[2]
The best way for a startup to engage with slow-moving
organizations is to fork off separate processes to deal with them.
It's when they're on the critical path that they kill you—when
you depend on closing a deal to move forward.  It's worth taking
extreme measures to avoid that.[3]
This is a variant of Reid Hoffman's principle that if you
aren't embarrassed by what you launch with, you waited too long to
launch.[4]
The question to ask about what you've built is not whether it's
good, but whether it's good enough to supply the activation energy
required.[5]
Some VCs seem to understand technology because they actually
do, but that's overkill; the defining test is whether you can talk
about it well enough to convince limited partners.[6]
This is the same phenomenon you see with defense contractors
or fashion brands.  The dumber the customers, the more effort you
expend on the process of selling things to them rather than making
the things you sell.Thanks: to Jessica Livingston for reading drafts of this,
and to all the founders who responded to my email.Related:Startups in 13 SentencesThe Hardest Lessons for Startups to LearnHow Not to DieThe 18 Mistakes That Kill StartupsA Fundraising Survival GuideRussian TranslationKorean TranslationHebrew Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

September 2009When meeting people you don't know very well, the convention is
to seem extra friendly.  You smile and say "pleased to meet you,"
whether you are or not.  There's nothing dishonest about this.
Everyone knows that these little social lies aren't meant
to be taken literally, just as everyone knows that 
"Can you pass the salt?" is only grammatically a question.I'm perfectly willing to smile and say "pleased to meet you"
when meeting new people.  But there is another set of 
customs for being ingratiating in print that are not so
harmless.The reason there's a convention of being ingratiating in print
is that most essays are written to persuade.
And as any politician could tell
you, the way to persuade people is not just to baldly state the
facts.  You have to add a spoonful of sugar to make the medicine
go down.For example, a politician announcing the cancellation of 
a government program will not merely say "The
program is canceled." That would seem offensively
curt.  Instead he'll spend most of his time talking about the
noble effort made by the people who worked on it.The reason these conventions are more dangerous is that they
interact with the ideas.  Saying "pleased to meet you" is just
something you prepend to a conversation, but the sort of spin 
added by politicians is woven through it.  We're starting to
move from social lies to real lies.Here's an example of a paragraph from an essay I wrote about
labor unions.  As written,
it tends to offend people who like unions.

  People who think the labor movement was the creation of heroic
  union organizers have a problem to explain: why are unions shrinking
  now?  The best they can do is fall back on the default explanation
  of people living in fallen civilizations. Our ancestors were
  giants.  The workers of the early twentieth century must have had
  a moral courage that's lacking today.

Now here's the same paragraph rewritten to please instead of
offending them:

  Early union organizers made heroic sacrifices to improve conditions
  for workers.  But though
  labor unions are shrinking now, it's not because present union
  leaders are any less courageous.  An employer couldn't get away
  with hiring thugs to beat up union leaders today, but if they
  did, I see no reason to believe today's union leaders would shrink
  from the challenge.  So I think it would be a mistake to attribute
  the decline of unions to some kind of decline in the people who
  run them.  Early union leaders were heroic, certainly, but we
  should not suppose that if unions have declined, it's because
  present union leaders are somehow inferior.  The cause must be
  external.
[1]

It makes the same point: that it can't have been the personal
qualities of early union organizers that made unions successful,
but must have been some external factor, or otherwise present-day
union leaders would have to be inferior people.  But written this
way it seems like a defense of present-day union organizers rather
than an attack on early ones.  That makes it more persuasive to
people who like unions, because it seems sympathetic to their cause.I believe everything I wrote in the second version.  Early union
leaders did make heroic sacrifices.   And
present union leaders probably would rise to the occasion if
necessary.  People tend to; I'm skeptical about the idea of "the
greatest generation." 
[2]If I believe everything I said in the second version, why didn't I
write it that way?  Why offend people needlessly?Because I'd rather offend people than pander to them, 
and if you write about controversial topics you have to choose one or the other.  The degree of
courage of past or present union leaders is beside the point; all
that matters for the argument is that they're the same.
But if you want to please
people who are mistaken, you can't simply tell the truth.  You're
always going to have to add some sort of padding to protect their
misconceptions from bumping against reality.Most writers do.  Most writers write to persuade, if only out of
habit or politeness.  But I don't write to persuade; I write to
figure out.  I write to persuade a hypothetical perfectly unbiased
reader.Since the custom is to write to persuade the actual reader, someone
who doesn't will seem arrogant.  In fact, worse than arrogant: since
readers are used to essays that try to please someone, an essay
that displeases one side in a dispute reads as an attempt to pander
to the other.  To a lot of pro-union readers, the first paragraph
sounds like the sort of thing a right-wing radio talk show host
would say to stir up his followers.  But it's not.  Something that
curtly contradicts one's beliefs can be hard to distinguish from a
partisan attack on them, but though they can end up in the same
place they come from different sources.Would it be so bad to add a few extra words, to make people feel
better?  Maybe not.  Maybe I'm excessively attached to conciseness.
I write code the same way I write essays, 
making pass after pass
looking for anything I can cut.  But I have a legitimate reason for
doing this.  You don't know what the ideas are until you get them
down to the fewest words.  
[3]The danger of the second paragraph
is not merely that it's longer.  It's that you start to lie to
yourself.  The ideas start to get mixed together with the spin
you've added to get them past the readers' misconceptions.I think the goal of an essay should be to discover 
surprising things.  That's my goal, at least.
And most surprising means most different from what people currently
believe.  So writing to persuade and writing to discover are
diametrically opposed.  The more your conclusions disagree with
readers' present beliefs, the more effort you'll have to expend on
selling your ideas rather than having them.  As you accelerate,
this drag increases, till eventually you reach a point where 100%
of your energy is devoted to overcoming it and you can't go any
faster.It's hard enough to overcome one's own misconceptions without having
to think about how to get the resulting ideas past other people's.
I worry that if I wrote to persuade, I'd start to shy away unconsciously
from ideas I knew would be hard to sell.  When I notice something
surprising, it's usually very faint at first.  There's nothing more
than a slight stirring of discomfort.  I don't want anything to get
in the way of noticing it consciously.Notes[1]
I had a strange feeling of being back in high school writing
this.  To get a good grade you had to both write the sort of pious
crap you were expected to, but also seem to be writing with conviction.
The solution was a kind of method acting.  It was revoltingly
familiar to slip back into it.[2]
Exercise for the reader:
rephrase that thought to please the same people the first version
would offend.[3]
Come to think of it, there is one way in which I deliberately
pander to readers, because it doesn't change the number of words:
I switch person.  This flattering distinction seems so natural to
the average reader that they probably don't notice even when I
switch in mid-sentence, though you tend to notice when it's done
as conspicuously as this.Thanks to Jessica Livingston and Robert Morris
for reading drafts of this.Note: An earlier version of this essay began by talking
about why people dislike Michael Arrington.  I now believe that
was mistaken, and that most people don't dislike him for the
same reason I did when I first met him, but simply because
he writes about controversial things.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

September 2009Publishers of all types, from news to music, are unhappy that
consumers won't pay for content anymore.  At least, that's how they
see it.In fact consumers never really were paying for content, and publishers
weren't really selling it either.  If the content was what they
were selling, why has the price of books or music or movies always
depended mostly on the format?  Why didn't better content cost more?
[1]A copy of Time costs $5 for 58 pages, or 8.6 cents a page.  
The Economist costs $7 for 86 pages, or 8.1 cents a page.  Better
journalism is actually slightly cheaper.Almost every form of publishing has been organized as if the medium
was what they were selling, and the content was irrelevant.  Book
publishers, for example, set prices based on the cost of producing
and distributing books.  They treat the words printed in the book
the same way a textile manufacturer treats the patterns printed on
its fabrics.Economically, the print media are in the business of marking up
paper.  We can all imagine an old-style editor getting a scoop and
saying "this will sell a lot of papers!" Cross out that final S and
you're describing their business model.  The reason they make less
money now is that people don't need as much paper.A few months ago I ran into a friend in a cafe.  I had a copy of
the New York Times, which I still occasionally buy on weekends.  As
I was leaving I offered it to him, as I've done countless times
before in the same situation.  But this time something new happened.
I felt that sheepish feeling you get when you offer someone something
worthless.  "Do you, er, want a printout of yesterday's news?" I
asked.  (He didn't.)Now that the medium is evaporating, publishers have nothing left
to sell.  Some seem to think they're going to sell content—that
they were always in the content business, really.  But they weren't,
and it's unclear whether anyone could be.SellingThere have always been people in the business of selling information,
but that has historically been a distinct business from publishing.
And the business of selling information to consumers has always
been a marginal one.  When I was a kid there were people who used
to sell newsletters containing stock tips, printed on colored paper
that made them hard for the copiers of the day to reproduce.  That
is a different world, both culturally and economically, from the
one publishers currently inhabit.People will pay for information they think they can make money from.
That's why they paid for those stock tip newsletters, and why
companies pay now for Bloomberg terminals and Economist Intelligence
Unit reports.  But will people pay for information otherwise?
History offers little encouragement.If audiences were willing to pay more for better content, why wasn't
anyone already selling it to them?  There was no reason you couldn't
have done that in the era of physical media.  So were the print
media and the music labels simply overlooking this opportunity?  Or
is it, rather, nonexistent?What about iTunes?  Doesn't that show people will pay for content?
Well, not really. iTunes is more of a tollbooth than a store.  Apple
controls the default path onto the iPod.  They offer a convenient
list of songs, and whenever you choose one they ding your credit
card for a small amount, just below the threshold of attention.
Basically, iTunes makes money by taxing people, not selling them
stuff.  You can only do that if you own the channel, and even then
you don't make much from it, because a toll has to be ignorable to
work.  Once a toll becomes painful, people start to find ways around
it, and that's pretty easy with digital content.The situation is much the same with digital books.  Whoever controls
the device sets the terms.  It's in their interest for content to
be as cheap as possible, and since they own the channel, there's a
lot they can do to drive prices down.  Prices will fall even further
once writers realize they don't need publishers.  Getting a book
printed and distributed is a daunting prospect for a writer, but
most can upload a file.Is software a counterexample?  People pay a lot for desktop software,
and that's just information.  True, but I don't think publishers
can learn much from software.  Software companies can charge a lot
because (a) many of the customers are businesses, who get in 
trouble
if they use pirated versions, and (b) though in form merely
information, software is treated by both maker and purchaser as a
different type of thing from a song or an article.   A Photoshop
user needs Photoshop in a way that no one needs a particular song
or article.That's why there's a separate word, "content," for information
that's not software.  Software is a different business.  Software
and content blur together in some of the most lightweight software,
like casual games.  But those are usually free.   To make money the
way software companies do, publishers would have to become software
companies, and being publishers gives them no particular head start
in that domain. 
[2]The most promising countertrend is the premium cable channel.  People
still pay for those.  But broadcasting isn't publishing: you're not
selling a copy of something.  That's one reason the movie business
hasn't seen their revenues decline the way the news and music
businesses have.  They only have one foot in publishing.To the extent the movie business can avoid becoming publishers,
they may avoid publishing's problems.  But there are limits to how
well they'll be able to do that.  Once publishing—giving people
copies—becomes the most natural way of distributing your content,
it probably doesn't work to stick to old forms of distribution just
because you make more that way.  If free copies of your content are
available online, then you're competing with publishing's form of
distribution, and that's just as bad as being a publisher.Apparently some people in the music business hope to retroactively
convert it away from publishing, by getting listeners to pay for
subscriptions.  It seems unlikely that will work if they're just
streaming the same files you can get as mp3s.NextWhat happens to publishing if you can't sell content?  You have two
choices: give it away and make money from it indirectly, or find
ways to embody it in things people will pay for.The first is probably the future of most current media.  
Give music
away and make money from concerts and t-shirts.  Publish articles
for free and make money from one of a dozen permutations of
advertising.  Both publishers and investors are down on advertising
at the moment, but it has more potential than they realize.I'm not claiming that potential will be realized by the existing
players.  The optimal
ways to make money from the written word
probably require different words written by different people.It's harder to say what will happen to movies.  They could evolve
into ads.  Or they could return to their roots and make going to
the theater a treat.  If they made the experience good enough,
audiences might start to prefer it to watching pirated movies at
home. 
[3]
Or maybe the movie business will dry up, and the people
working in it will go to work for game developers.I don't know how big embodying information in physical form will
be.  It may be surprisingly large; people overvalue 
physical stuff.
There should remain some market for printed books, at least.I can see the evolution of book publishing in the books on my
shelves.  Clearly at some point in the 1960s the big publishing
houses started to ask: how cheaply can we make books before people
refuse to buy them?  The answer turned out to be one step short of
phonebooks.  As long as it isn't floppy, consumers still perceive
it as a book.That worked as long as buying printed books was the only way to
read them.  If printed books are optional, publishers will have to
work harder to entice people to buy them.  There should be some
market, but it's hard to foresee how big, because its size will
depend not on macro trends like the amount people read, but on the
ingenuity of individual publishers. 
[4]Some magazines may thrive by focusing on the magazine as a physical
object.  Fashion magazines could be made lush in a way that would
be hard to match digitally, at least for a while.  But this is
probably not an option for most magazines.I don't know exactly what the future will look like, but I'm not
too worried about it.  This sort of change tends to create as many
good things as it kills.  Indeed, the really interesting question is not
what will happen to existing forms, but what new forms will appear.The reason I've been writing about existing forms is that I don't
know what new forms will appear.  But though I can't predict
specific winners, I can offer a recipe for recognizing them.  When
you see something that's taking advantage of new technology to give
people something they want that they couldn't have before, you're
probably looking at a winner.  And when you see something that's
merely reacting to new technology in an attempt to preserve some
existing source of revenue, you're probably looking at a loser.Notes[1]
I don't like the word "content" and tried for a while to avoid
using it, but I have to admit there's no other word that means the
right thing.  "Information" is too general.Ironically, the main reason I don't like "content" is the thesis
of this essay.  The word suggests an undifferentiated slurry, but
economically that's how both publishers and audiences treat it.
Content is information you don't need.[2]
Some types of publishers would be at a disadvantage trying
to enter the software business.  Record labels, for example, would
probably find it more natural to expand into casinos than software,
because the kind of people who run them would be more at home at
the mafia end of the business spectrum than the don't-be-evil end.[3]
I never watch movies in theaters anymore.  The tipping point
for me was the ads they show first.[4]
Unfortunately, making physically nice books will only be a
niche within a niche.  Publishers are more likely to resort to
expedients like selling autographed copies, or editions with the
buyer's picture on the cover.Thanks to Michael Arrington, Trevor Blackwell, Steven Levy, Robert
Morris, and Geoff Ralston for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

September 2009I bet you the current issue of Cosmopolitan has an article
whose title begins with a number. "7 Things He Won't Tell You about
Sex," or something like that.  Some popular magazines
feature articles of this type on the cover of every
issue.  That can't be happening by accident.  Editors must know
they attract readers.Why do readers like the list of n things so much?   Mainly because
it's easier to read than a regular article.  
[1]
Structurally, the list of n things is a degenerate case of essay.
An essay can go anywhere the writer wants.  In a list of n things
the writer agrees to constrain himself to a collection of points
of roughly equal importance, and he tells the reader explicitly
what they are.Some of the work of reading an article is understanding its
structure—figuring out what in high school we'd have called
its "outline." Not explicitly, of course, but someone who really
understands an article probably has something in his brain afterward
that corresponds to such an outline.  In a list of n things, this
work is done for you.  Its structure is an exoskeleton.As well as being explicit, the structure is guaranteed to be of the
simplest possible type: a few main points with few to no subordinate
ones, and no particular connection between them.Because the main points are unconnected, the list of n things is
random access.  There's no thread of reasoning you have to follow.  You could
read the list in any order.  And because the points are independent
of one another, they work like watertight compartments in an
unsinkable ship.  If you get bored with, or can't understand, or
don't agree with one point, you don't have to give up on the article.
You can just abandon that one and skip to the next.  A list of n
things is parallel and therefore fault tolerant.There are times when this format is what a writer wants.  One, obviously,
is when what you have to say actually is a list of n
things.  I once wrote an essay about the mistakes that kill startups, and a few people made fun of me
for writing something whose title began with a number.  But in that
case I really was trying to make a complete catalog of a number of
independent things.  In fact, one of the questions I was trying to
answer was how many there were.There are other less legitimate reasons for using this format.  For
example, I use it when I get close to a deadline.  If I have to
give a talk and I haven't started it a few days beforehand, I'll
sometimes play it safe and make the talk a list of n things.The list of n things is easier for writers as well as readers.  When
you're writing a real essay, there's always a chance you'll hit a
dead end.  A real essay is a train of thought, and some trains of
thought just peter out.  That's an alarming possibility when you
have to give a talk in a few days.  What if you run out of ideas?
The compartmentalized structure of the list of n things protects
the writer from his own stupidity in much the same way it protects
the reader.  If you run out of ideas on one point, no problem: it
won't kill the essay.  You can take out the whole point if you need
to, and the essay will still survive.Writing a list of n things is so relaxing.  You think of n/2 of
them in the first 5 minutes.  So bang, there's the structure, and
you just have to fill it in.  As you think of more points, you just
add them to the end.  Maybe you take out or rearrange or combine a
few, but at every stage you have a valid (though initially low-res)
list of n things.  It's like the sort of programming where you write
a version 1 very quickly and then gradually modify it, but at every
point have working code—or the style of painting where you begin
with a complete but very blurry sketch done in an hour, then spend
a week cranking up the resolution.Because the list of n things is easier for writers too, it's not
always a damning sign when readers prefer it.  It's not necessarily
evidence readers are lazy; it could also mean they don't have
much confidence in the writer.  The list of n things is in that
respect the cheeseburger of essay forms.  If you're eating at a
restaurant you suspect is bad, your best bet is to order the
cheeseburger.  Even a bad cook can make a decent cheeseburger.  And
there are pretty strict conventions about what a cheeseburger should
look like.  You can assume the cook isn't going to try something
weird and artistic.  The list of n things similarly limits the
damage that can be done by a bad writer.  You know it's going to
be about whatever the title says, and the format prevents the writer
from indulging in any flights of fancy.Because the list of n things is the easiest essay form, it should
be a good one for beginning writers.  And in fact it is what most
beginning writers are taught.  The classic 5 paragraph essay is
really a list of n things for n = 3.  But the students writing them
don't realize they're using the same structure as the articles they
read in Cosmopolitan. They're not allowed to include the numbers,
and they're expected to spackle over the gaps with gratuitous
transitions ("Furthermore...") and cap the thing at either end with
introductory and concluding paragraphs so it will look superficially
like a real essay.
[2]It seems a fine plan to start students off with the list of n things.
It's the easiest form.  But if we're going to do that, why not do
it openly?  Let them write lists of n things like the pros, with
numbers and no transitions or "conclusion."There is one case where the list of n things is a dishonest format:
when you use it to attract attention by falsely claiming the list
is an exhaustive one.  I.e. if you write an article that purports
to be about the 7 secrets of success.  That kind of title is the
same sort of reflexive challenge as a whodunit. You have to at least
look at the article to check whether they're the same 7 you'd list.
Are you overlooking one of the secrets of success?  Better check.It's fine to put "The" before the number if you really believe
you've made an exhaustive list.  But evidence suggests most things
with titles like this are linkbait.The greatest weakness of the list of n things is that there's so
little room for new thought.  The main point of essay writing, when
done right, is the new ideas you have while doing it.  A real essay,
as the name implies, is 
dynamic: you don't know what you're going
to write when you start.  It will be about whatever you discover
in the course of writing it.This can only happen in a very limited way in a list of n things.
You make the title first, and that's what it's going to be about.
You can't have more new ideas in the writing than will fit in the
watertight compartments you set up initially.  And your brain seems
to know this: because you don't have room for new ideas, you don't
have them.Another advantage of admitting to beginning writers that the 5
paragraph essay is really a list of n things is that we can warn
them about this.  It only lets you experience the defining
characteristic of essay writing on a small scale: in thoughts of a
sentence or two.  And it's particularly dangerous that the 5 paragraph
essay buries the list of n things within something that looks like
a more sophisticated type of essay.  If you don't know you're using
this form, you don't know you need to escape it.Notes[1]
Articles of this type are also startlingly popular on Delicious,
but I think that's because 
delicious/popular 
is driven by bookmarking,
not because Delicious users are stupid.  Delicious users are
collectors, and a list of n things seems particularly collectible
because it's a collection itself.[2]
Most "word problems" in school math textbooks are similarly
misleading.  They look superficially like the application of math
to real problems, but they're not.  So if anything they reinforce
the impression that math is merely a complicated but pointless
collection of stuff to be memorized.Russian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


September 2009Like all investors, we spend a lot of time trying to learn how to
predict which startups will succeed.  We probably spend more time
thinking about it than most, because we invest the earliest.
Prediction is usually all we have to rely on.We learned quickly that the most important predictor of success is
determination.  At first we thought it might be intelligence.
Everyone likes to believe that's what makes startups succeed.  It
makes a better story that a company won because its founders were
so smart.  The PR people and reporters who spread such stories
probably believe them themselves.  But while it certainly helps to
be smart, it's not the deciding factor.  There are plenty of people
as smart as Bill Gates who achieve nothing.In most domains, talent is overrated compared to determination—partly
because it makes a better story, partly because it gives onlookers
an excuse for being lazy, and partly because after a while determination
starts to look like talent.I can't think of any field in which determination is overrated, but
the relative importance of determination and talent probably do
vary somewhat.  Talent probably matters more in types of work that
are purer, in the sense that one is solving mostly a single type
of problem instead of many different types.   I suspect determination
would not take you as far in math as it would in, say, organized
crime.I don't mean to suggest by this comparison that types of work that
depend more on talent are always more admirable.  Most people would
agree it's more admirable to be good at math than memorizing long
strings of digits, even though the latter depends more on natural
ability.Perhaps one reason people believe startup founders win by being
smarter is that intelligence does matter more in technology startups
than it used to in earlier types of companies.  You probably do
need to be a bit smarter to dominate Internet search than you had
to be to dominate railroads or hotels or newspapers.  And that's
probably an ongoing trend.  But even in the highest of high tech
industries, success still depends more on determination than brains.If determination is so important, can we isolate its components?
Are some more important than others?  Are there some you can
cultivate?The simplest form of determination is sheer willfulness.  When you
want something, you must have it, no matter what.A good deal of willfulness must be inborn, because it's common to
see families where one sibling has much more of it than another.
Circumstances can alter it, but at the high end of the scale, nature
seems to be more important than nurture.  Bad circumstances can
break the spirit of a strong-willed person, but I don't think there's
much you can do to make a weak-willed person stronger-willed.Being strong-willed is not enough, however.  You also have to be
hard on yourself.  Someone who was strong-willed but self-indulgent
would not be called determined.  Determination implies your willfulness
is balanced by discipline.That word balance is a significant one.  The more willful you are,
the more disciplined you have to be.  The stronger your will, the
less anyone will be able to argue with you except yourself.  And
someone has to argue with you, because everyone has base impulses,
and if you have more will than discipline you'll just give into
them and end up on a local maximum like drug addiction.We can imagine will and discipline as two fingers squeezing a
slippery melon seed.  The harder they squeeze, the further the seed
flies, but they must both squeeze equally or the seed spins off
sideways.If this is true it has interesting implications, because discipline
can be cultivated, and in fact does tend to vary quite a lot in the
course of an individual's life.  If determination is effectively
the product of will and discipline, then you can become more
determined by being more disciplined.
[1]Another consequence of the melon seed model is that the more willful
you are, the more dangerous it is to be undisciplined.  There seem
to be plenty of examples to confirm that.  In some very energetic
people's lives you see something like wing flutter, where they
alternate between doing great work and doing absolutely nothing.
Externally this would look a lot like bipolar disorder.The melon seed model is inaccurate in at least one respect, however:
it's static.  In fact the dangers of indiscipline increase with
temptation.  Which means, interestingly, that determination tends
to erode itself.  If you're sufficiently determined to achieve great
things, this will probably increase the number of temptations around
you.  Unless you become proportionally more disciplined, willfulness
will then get the upper hand, and your achievement will revert to
the mean.That's why Shakespeare's Caesar thought thin men so dangerous.  They weren't
tempted by the minor perquisites of power.The melon seed model implies it's possible to be too disciplined.
Is it?  I think there probably are people whose willfulness is
crushed down by excessive discipline, and who would achieve more
if they weren't so hard on themselves.  One reason the young sometimes
succeed where the old fail is that they don't realize how incompetent
they are.  This lets them do a kind of deficit spending.  When they
first start working on something, they overrate their achievements.
But that gives them confidence to keep working, and their performance
improves.  Whereas someone clearer-eyed would see their initial
incompetence for what it was, and perhaps be discouraged from
continuing.There's one other major component of determination: ambition.  If
willfulness and discipline are what get you to your destination,
ambition is how you choose it.I don't know if it's exactly right to say that ambition is a component
of determination, but they're not entirely orthogonal.  It would
seem a misnomer if someone said they were very determined to do
something trivially easy.And fortunately ambition seems to be quite malleable; there's a lot
you can do to increase it.  Most people don't know how ambitious
to be, especially when they're young.  They don't know what's hard,
or what they're capable of.  And this problem is exacerbated by
having few peers.  Ambitious people are rare, so if everyone is
mixed together randomly, as they tend to be early in people's lives,
then the ambitious ones won't have many ambitious peers.  When you
take people like this and put them together with other ambitious
people, they bloom like dying plants given water.  Probably most
ambitious people are starved for the sort of encouragement they'd
get from ambitious peers, whatever their age.
[2]Achievements also tend to increase your ambition.  With each step
you gain confidence to stretch further next time.So here in sum is how determination seems to work: it consists of
willfulness balanced with discipline, aimed by ambition.   And
fortunately at least two of these three qualities can be cultivated.
You may be able to increase your strength of will somewhat; you can
definitely learn self-discipline; and almost everyone is practically
malnourished when it comes to ambition.I feel like I understand determination a bit better now.  But only
a bit: willfulness, discipline, and ambition are all concepts almost
as complicated as determination.
[3]Note too that determination and talent are not the whole story.
There's a third factor in achievement: how much you like the work.
If you really love working on something,
you don't need determination to drive you; it's what you'd do anyway.
But most types of work have aspects one doesn't like, because most
types of work consist of doing things for other people, and it's
very unlikely that the tasks imposed by their needs will happen to
align exactly with what you want to do.Indeed, if you want to create the most wealth,
the way to do it is to focus more on their needs than your interests,
and make up the difference with determination.Notes[1]
Loosely speaking.  What I'm claiming with the melon seed model
is more like determination is proportionate to wd^m - k|w - d|^n,
where w is will and d discipline.[2]
Which means one of the best ways to help a society generally
is to create events and institutions that bring ambitious
people together.  It's like pulling the control rods out of a
reactor: the energy they emit encourages other ambitious people,
instead of being absorbed by the normal people they're usually
surrounded with.Conversely, it's probably a mistake to do as some European countries
have done and try to ensure none of your universities is significantly
better than the others.[3]
For example, willfulness clearly has two subcomponents,
stubbornness and energy.  The first alone yields someone who's
stubbornly inert.  The second alone yields someone flighty.
As willful people get older or otherwise lose their energy, they
tend to become merely stubborn.Thanks to Sam Altman, Jessica Livingston, and Robert Morris
for reading drafts of this.Italian TranslationPortuguese TranslationRussian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

August 2009Kate Courteau is the architect who designed Y Combinator's office.
Recently we managed to recruit her to help us run YC when she's not
busy with architectural projects.  Though she'd heard a lot about
YC since the beginning, the last 9 months have been a total immersion.I've been around the startup world for so long that it seems normal
to me, so I was curious to hear what had surprised her most about
it.  This was her list:1. How many startups fail.Kate knew in principle that startups
were very risky, but she was surprised to see how constant the
threat of failure was — not just for the minnows, but even for the
famous startups whose founders came to speak at YC dinners.2. How much startups' ideas change.As usual, by Demo Day about
half the startups were doing something significantly different than
they started with.  We encourage that.  Starting a startup is like
science in that you have to follow the truth wherever it leads.  In
the rest of the world, people don't start things till they're sure
what they want to do, and once started they tend to continue on their
initial path even if it's mistaken.3. How little money it can take to start a startup.In Kate's
world, everything is still physical and expensive.  You can barely
renovate a bathroom for the cost of starting a startup.4. How scrappy founders are.That was her actual word.  I agree
with her, but till she mentioned this it never occurred to me how
little this quality is appreciated in most of the rest of the world.
It wouldn't be a compliment in most organizations to call someone
scrappy.What does it mean, exactly?  It's basically the diminutive form of
belligerent.  Someone who's scrappy manages to be both threatening
and undignified at the same time.   Which seems to me exactly what
one would want to be, in any kind of work.  If you're not threatening,
you're probably not doing anything new, and dignity is merely a
sort of plaque.5. How tech-saturated Silicon Valley is."It seems like everybody
here is in the industry."  That isn't literally true, but there is
a qualitative difference between Silicon Valley and other places.
You tend to keep your voice down, because there's a good chance the
person at the next table would know some of the people you're talking
about.  I never felt that in Boston.  The good news is, there's
also a good chance the person at the next table could help you in
some way.6. That the speakers at YC were so consistent in their advice.
Actually, I've noticed this too.  I always worry the speakers will
put us in an embarrassing position by contradicting what we tell the
startups, but it happens surprisingly rarely.When I asked her what specific things she remembered speakers always
saying, she mentioned: that the way to succeed was to launch something
fast, listen to users, and then iterate; that startups required
resilience because they were always an emotional rollercoaster; and
that most VCs were sheep.I've been impressed by how consistently the speakers advocate
launching fast and iterating.  That was contrarian advice 10 years
ago, but it's clearly now the established practice.7. How casual successful startup founders are.Most of the famous
founders in Silicon Valley are people you'd overlook on the street.
It's not merely that they don't dress up.  They don't project any
kind of aura of power either.  "They're not trying to impress
anyone."Interestingly, while Kate said that she could never pick out
successful founders, she could recognize VCs, both by the way they
dressed and the way they carried themselves.8. How important it is for founders to have people to ask for advice.(I swear I didn't prompt this one.)  Without advice "they'd just
be sort of lost."  Fortunately, there are a lot of people to help
them.  There's a strong tradition within YC of helping other YC-funded
startups.  But we didn't invent that idea: it's just a slightly
more concentrated form of existing Valley culture.9. What a solitary task startups are.Architects are constantly
interacting face to face with other people, whereas doing a technology
startup, at least, tends to require long stretches of uninterrupted
time to work.  "You could do it in a box."By inverting this list, we can get a portrait of the "normal" world.
It's populated by people who talk a lot with one another as they
work slowly but harmoniously on conservative, expensive projects
whose destinations are decided in advance, and who carefully adjust
their manner to reflect their position in the hierarchy.That's also a fairly accurate description of the past.  So startup
culture may not merely be different in the way you'd expect any
subculture to be, but a leading indicator.Japanese Translation
