July 2008At this year's startup school, David Heinemeier Hansson gave a
 talk
in which he suggested that startup founders
should do things the old fashioned way.  Instead of hoping to get
rich by building a valuable company and then selling stock in a
"liquidity event," founders should start companies that make money
and live off the revenues.Sounds like a good plan.  Let's think about the optimal way to do
this.One disadvantage of living off the revenues of your company is that
you have to keep running it.  And as anyone who runs their own
business can tell you, that requires your complete attention.  You
can't just start a business and check out once things are going
well, or they stop going well surprisingly fast.The main economic motives of startup founders seem to be freedom
and security.  They want enough money that (a) they don't have to
worry about running out of money and (b) they can spend their time
how they want.  Running your own business offers neither.  You
certainly don't have freedom: no boss is so demanding.  Nor do you
have security, because if you stop paying attention to the company,
its revenues go away, and with them your income.The best case, for most people, would be if you could hire someone
to manage the company for you once you'd grown it to a certain size.
Suppose you could find a really good manager.  Then you would have
both freedom and security.  You could pay as little attention to
the business as you wanted, knowing that your manager would keep
things running smoothly.  And that being so, revenues would continue
to flow in, so you'd have security as well.There will of course be some founders who wouldn't like that idea:
the ones who like running their company so much that there's nothing
else they'd rather do.  But this group must be small.  The way you
succeed in most businesses is to be fanatically attentive
to customers' needs.  What are the odds that your own desires would
coincide exactly with the demands of this powerful, external force?Sure, running your own company can be fairly interesting.  Viaweb
was more interesting than any job I'd had before.  And since I made
much more money from it, it offered the highest ratio of income to
boringness of anything I'd done, by orders of magnitude.  But was
it the most interesting work I could imagine doing?  No.Whether the number of founders in the same position is asymptotic
or merely large, there are certainly a lot of them.  For them the
right approach would be to hand the company over to a professional
manager eventually, if they could find one who was good enough._____So far so good.  But what if your manager was hit by a bus?  What
you really want is a management company to run your company for
you.  Then you don't depend on any one person.If you own rental property, there are companies you can hire to
manage it for you.  Some will do everything, from finding tenants
to fixing leaks.  Of course, running companies is a lot more
complicated than managing rental property, but let's suppose there
were management companies that could do it for you. They'd charge
a lot, but wouldn't it be worth it?  I'd sacrifice a large percentage
of the income for the extra peace of mind.I realize what I'm describing already sounds too good to be true, but I
can think of a way to make it even more attractive.  If
company management companies existed, there would be an additional
service they could offer clients: they could let them insure their
returns by pooling their risk.  After all, even a perfect manager can't save a company
when, as sometimes happens, its whole market dies, just as property
managers can't save you from the building burning down.  But a
company that managed a large enough number of companies could say
to all its clients: we'll combine the revenues from all your
companies, and pay you your proportionate share.If such management companies existed, they'd offer the maximum of
freedom and security.  Someone would run your company for you, and
you'd be protected even if it happened to die.Let's think about how such a management company might be organized.
The simplest way would be to have a new kind of stock representing
the total pool of companies they were managing.  When you signed
up, you'd trade your company's stock for shares of this pool, in
proportion to an estimate of your company's value that you'd both
agreed upon.  Then you'd automatically get your share of the returns
of the whole pool.The catch is that because this kind of trade would be hard to undo,
you couldn't switch management companies.  But there's a way they
could fix that: suppose all the company management companies got
together and agreed to allow their clients to exchange shares in
all their pools.  Then you could, in effect, simultaneously choose
all the management companies to run yours for you, in whatever
proportion you wanted, and change your mind later as often as you
wanted.If such pooled-risk company management companies existed, signing
up with one would seem the ideal plan for most people following the
route David advocated.Good news: they do exist.  What I've just
described is an acquisition by a public company._____Unfortunately, though public acquirers are structurally identical
to pooled-risk company management companies, they don't think of
themselves that way.  With a property management company, you can
just walk in whenever you want and say "manage my rental property
for me" and they'll do it.  Whereas acquirers are, as of this
writing, extremely fickle.  Sometimes they're in a buying mood and
they'll overpay enormously; other times they're not interested.
They're like property management companies run by madmen.  Or more
precisely, by Benjamin Graham's Mr. Market.So while on average public acquirers behave like pooled-risk company
managers, you need a window of several years to get average case
performance.  If you wait long enough (five years, say) you're
likely to hit an up cycle where some acquirer is hot to buy you.
But you can't choose when it happens.You can't assume investors will carry you for as long as you might
have to wait. Your company has to make money.  Opinions are divided
about how early to focus on that.  
Joe Kraus says you should try
charging customers right away.  And yet some of the most successful
startups, including Google, ignored revenue at first and concentrated
exclusively on development.  The answer probably depends on the
type of company you're starting.  I can imagine some where trying
to make sales would be a good heuristic for product design, and
others where it would just be a distraction.  The test is probably
whether it helps you to understand your users.You can choose whichever revenue strategy you think is best for the
type of company you're starting, so long as you're profitable.
Being profitable ensures you'll get at least the average of the
acquisition market—in which public companies do behave as pooled-risk
company management companies.David isn't mistaken in saying you should start a company to live
off its revenues.  The mistake is thinking this is somehow opposed
to starting a company and selling it.  In fact, for most people the
latter is merely the optimal case of the former.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston, Michael
Mandel, Robert Morris, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of this.Russian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

May 2008
Great cities attract ambitious people.  You can sense it when you
walk around one.  In a hundred subtle ways, the city sends you a
message: you could do more; you should try harder.The surprising thing is how different these messages can be.  New
York tells you, above all: you should make more money.  There are
other messages too, of course.  You should be hipper.  You should
be better looking.  But the clearest message is that you should be
richer.What I like about Boston (or rather Cambridge) is that the message
there is: you should be smarter.  You really should get around to
reading all those books you've been meaning to.When you ask what message a city sends, you sometimes get surprising
answers.  As much as they respect brains in Silicon Valley, the
message the Valley sends is: you should be more powerful.That's not quite the same message New York sends.  Power matters
in New York too of course, but New York is pretty impressed by a
billion dollars even if you merely inherited it.  In Silicon Valley
no one would care except a few real estate agents.  What matters
in Silicon Valley is how much effect you have on the world.  The
reason people there care about Larry and Sergey is not their wealth
but the fact that they control Google, which affects practically
everyone._____How much does it matter what message a city sends?  Empirically,
the answer seems to be: a lot. You might think that if you had
enough strength of mind to do great things, you'd be able to transcend
your environment.  Where you live should make at most a couple
percent difference.  But if you look at the historical evidence,
it seems to matter more than that.  Most people who did great things
were clumped together in a few places where that sort of thing was
done at the time.You can see how powerful cities are from something I wrote about
earlier: the case of the Milanese Leonardo.  
Practically every
fifteenth century Italian painter you've heard of was from Florence,
even though Milan was just as big.  People in Florence weren't
genetically different, so you have to assume there was someone born
in Milan with as much natural ability as Leonardo.  What happened
to him?If even someone with the same natural ability as Leonardo
couldn't beat the force of environment, do you suppose you can?I don't.  I'm fairly stubborn, but I wouldn't try to fight this
force.  I'd rather use it.  So I've thought a lot about where to
live.I'd always imagined Berkeley would be the ideal place — that
it would basically be Cambridge with good weather.  But when I
finally tried living there a couple years ago, it turned out not
to be.  The message Berkeley sends is: you should live better.  Life
in Berkeley is very civilized.  It's probably the place in America
where someone from Northern Europe would feel most at home.  But
it's not humming with ambition.In retrospect it shouldn't have been surprising that a place so
pleasant would attract people interested above all in quality of
life.  Cambridge with good weather, it turns out, is not Cambridge.
The people you find in Cambridge are not there by accident.  You
have to make sacrifices to live there.  It's expensive and somewhat
grubby, and the weather's often bad.  So the kind of people you
find in Cambridge are the kind of people who want to live where the
smartest people are, even if that means living in an expensive,
grubby place with bad weather.As of this writing, Cambridge seems to be the intellectual capital
of the world.  I realize that seems a preposterous claim.  What
makes it true is that it's more preposterous to claim about anywhere
else.  American universities currently seem to be the best, judging
from the flow of ambitious students.  And what US city has a stronger
claim?  New York?  A fair number of smart people, but diluted by a
much larger number of neanderthals in suits.  The Bay Area has a
lot of smart people too, but again, diluted;  there are two great
universities, but they're far apart.  Harvard and MIT are practically
adjacent by West Coast standards, and they're surrounded by about
20 other colleges and universities.
[1]Cambridge as a result feels like a town whose main industry is
ideas, while New York's is finance and Silicon Valley's is startups._____When you talk about cities in the sense we are, what you're really
talking about is collections of people.  For a long time cities
were the only large collections of people, so you could use the two
ideas interchangeably.  But we can see how much things are changing
from the examples I've mentioned.  New York is a classic great city.
But Cambridge is just part of a city, and Silicon Valley is not
even that.  (San Jose is not, as it sometimes claims, the capital
of Silicon Valley.  It's just 178 square miles at one end of it.)Maybe the Internet will change things further.  Maybe one day the
most important community you belong to will be a virtual one, and
it won't matter where you live physically.  But I wouldn't bet on
it.  The physical world is very high bandwidth, and some of the
ways cities send you messages are quite subtle.One of the exhilarating things about coming back to Cambridge every
spring is walking through the streets at dusk, when you can see
into the houses.  When you walk through Palo Alto in the evening,
you see nothing but the blue glow of TVs.  In Cambridge you see
shelves full of promising-looking books.  Palo Alto was probably
much like Cambridge in 1960, but you'd never guess now that there
was a university nearby.  Now it's just one of the richer neighborhoods
in Silicon Valley. 
[2]A city speaks to you mostly by accident — in things you see
through windows, in conversations you overhear.  It's not something
you have to seek out, but something you can't turn off.  One of the
occupational hazards of living in Cambridge is overhearing the
conversations of people who use interrogative intonation in declarative
sentences.  But on average I'll take Cambridge conversations over
New York or Silicon Valley ones.A friend who moved to Silicon Valley in the late 90s said the worst
thing about living there was the low quality of the eavesdropping.
At the time I thought she was being deliberately eccentric. Sure,
it can be interesting to eavesdrop on people, but is good quality
eavesdropping so important that it would affect where you chose to
live?  Now I understand what she meant.  The conversations you
overhear tell you what sort of people you're among._____No matter how determined you are, it's hard not to be influenced
by the people around you.  It's not so much that you do whatever a
city expects of you, but that you get discouraged when no one around
you cares about the same things you do.There's an imbalance between encouragement and discouragement like
that between gaining and losing money.  Most people overvalue
negative amounts of money: they'll work much harder to avoid losing
a dollar than to gain one.  Similarly, although there are plenty of
people strong enough to resist doing something just because that's
what one is supposed to do where they happen to be, there are few
strong enough to keep working on something no one around them cares
about.Because ambitions are to some extent incompatible and admiration
is a zero-sum game, each city tends to focus on one type of ambition.
The reason Cambridge is the intellectual capital is not just that
there's a concentration of smart people there, but that there's
nothing else people there care about more.  Professors in
New York and the Bay area are second class citizens — till they
start hedge funds or startups respectively.This suggests an answer to a question people in New York have
wondered about since the Bubble: whether New York could grow into
a startup hub to rival Silicon Valley.  One reason that's unlikely
is that someone starting a startup in New York would feel like a
second class citizen. 
[3]
There's already something else people in New York admire more.In the long term, that could be a bad thing for New York.  The power
of an important new technology does eventually convert to money.
So by caring more about money and less about power than Silicon
Valley, New York is recognizing the same thing, but slower.
[4]
And in fact it has been losing to Silicon Valley at its own game:
the ratio of New York to California residents in the Forbes 400 has
decreased from 1.45 (81:56) when the list was first published in
1982 to .83 (73:88) in 2007._____Not all cities send a message.  Only those that are centers for
some type of ambition do.  And it can be hard to tell exactly what
message a city sends without living there.  I understand the messages
of New York, Cambridge, and Silicon Valley because I've lived for
several years in each of them.  DC and LA seem to send messages
too, but I haven't spent long enough in either to say for sure what
they are.The big thing in LA seems to be fame.  There's an A List of people
who are most in demand right now, and what's most admired is to be
on it, or friends with those who are.  Beneath that, the message is
much like New York's, though perhaps with more emphasis on physical
attractiveness.In DC the message seems to be that the most important thing is who
you know.  You want to be an insider.  In practice this seems to
work much as in LA.  There's an A List and you want to be on it or
close to those who are.  The only difference is how the A List is
selected.  And even that is not that different.At the moment, San Francisco's message seems to be the same as
Berkeley's: you should live better.  But this will change if enough
startups choose SF over the Valley.  During the Bubble that was a
predictor of failure — a self-indulgent choice, like buying
expensive office furniture.  Even now I'm suspicious when startups
choose SF.  But if enough good ones do, it stops being a self-indulgent
choice, because the center of gravity of Silicon Valley will shift
there.I haven't found anything like Cambridge for intellectual ambition.
Oxford and Cambridge (England) feel like Ithaca or Hanover: the
message is there, but not as strong.Paris was once a great intellectual center.  If you went there in
1300, it might have sent the message Cambridge does now.  But I
tried living there for a bit last year, and the ambitions of the
inhabitants are not intellectual ones.  The message Paris sends now
is: do things with style.  I liked that, actually.  Paris is the
only city I've lived in where people genuinely cared about art.  In
America only a few rich people buy original art, and even the more
sophisticated ones rarely get past judging it by the brand name of
the artist.  But looking through windows at dusk in Paris you can
see that people there actually care what paintings look like.
Visually, Paris has the best eavesdropping I know. 
[5]There's one more message I've heard from cities: in London you can
still (barely) hear the message that one should be more aristocratic.
If you listen for it you can also hear it in Paris, New York, and
Boston.  But this message is everywhere very faint.  It would have
been strong 100 years ago, but now I probably wouldn't have picked
it up at all if I hadn't deliberately tuned in to that wavelength
to see if there was any signal left._____So far the complete list of messages I've picked up from cities is:
wealth, style, hipness, physical attractiveness, fame, political
power, economic power, intelligence, social class, and quality of
life.My immediate reaction to this list is that it makes me slightly
queasy.  I'd always considered ambition a good thing, but I realize
now that was because I'd always implicitly understood it to mean
ambition in the areas I cared about.  When you list everything
ambitious people are ambitious about, it's not so pretty.On closer examination I see a couple things on the list that are
surprising in the light of history.  For example, physical
attractiveness wouldn't have been there 100 years ago (though it
might have been 2400 years ago).  It has always mattered for women,
but in the late twentieth century it seems to have started to matter
for men as well.  I'm not sure why — probably some combination
of the increasing power of women, the increasing influence of actors
as models, and the fact that so many people work in offices now:
you can't show off by wearing clothes too fancy to wear in a factory,
so you have to show off with your body instead.Hipness is another thing you wouldn't have seen on the list 100
years ago.  Or wouldn't you?  What it means is to know what's what.
So maybe it has simply replaced the component of social class that
consisted of being "au fait."  That could explain why hipness seems
particularly admired in London: it's version 2 of the traditional
English delight in obscure codes that only insiders understand.Economic power would have been on the list 100 years ago, but what
we mean by it is changing.  It used to mean the control of vast
human and material resources.  But increasingly it means the ability
to direct the course of technology, and some of the people in a
position to do that are not even rich — leaders of important
open source projects, for example.  The Captains of Industry of
times past had laboratories full of clever people cooking up new
technologies for them.  The new breed are themselves those people.As this force gets more attention, another is dropping off the list:
social class.  I think the two changes are related.  Economic power,
wealth, and social class are just names for the same thing at
different stages in its life: economic power converts to wealth,
and wealth to social class.  So the focus of admiration is simply
shifting upstream._____Does anyone who wants to do great work have to live in a great city?
No; all great cities inspire some sort of ambition, but they aren't
the only places that do.  For some kinds of work, all you need is
a handful of talented colleagues.What cities provide is an audience, and a funnel for peers.  These
aren't so critical in something like math or physics, where no
audience matters except your peers, and judging ability is sufficiently
straightforward that hiring and admissions committees can do it
reliably.  In a field like math or physics all you need is a
department with the right colleagues in it.  It could be anywhere — in
Los Alamos, New Mexico, for example.It's in fields like the arts or writing or technology that the
larger environment matters.  In these the best practitioners aren't
conveniently collected in a few top university departments and
research labs — partly because talent is harder to judge, and
partly because people pay for these things, so one doesn't need to
rely on teaching or research funding to support oneself.  It's in
these more chaotic fields that it helps most to be in a great city:
you need the encouragement of feeling that people around you care
about the kind of work you do, and since you have to find peers for
yourself, you need the much larger intake mechanism of a great city.You don't have to live in a great city your whole life to benefit
from it.  The critical years seem to be the early and middle ones
of your career.  Clearly you don't have to grow up in a great city.
Nor does it seem to matter if you go to college in one.  To most
college students a world of a few thousand people seems big enough.
Plus in college you don't yet have to face the hardest kind of
work — discovering new problems to solve.It's when you move on to the next and much harder step that it helps
most to be in a place where you can find peers and encouragement.
You seem to be able to leave, if you want, once you've found both.
The Impressionists show the typical pattern: they were born all
over France (Pissarro was born in the Caribbean) and died all over
France, but what defined them were the years they spent together
in Paris._____Unless you're sure what you want to do and where the leading center
for it is, your best bet is probably to try living in several
places when you're young.  You can never tell what message a city
sends till you live there, or even whether it still sends one.
Often your information will be wrong: I tried living in Florence
when I was 25, thinking it would be an art center, but it turned
out I was 450 years too late.Even when a city is still a live center of ambition, you won't know
for sure whether its message will resonate with you till you hear
it.  When I moved to New York, I was very excited at first.  It's
an exciting place.  So it took me quite a while to realize I just
wasn't like the people there.  I kept searching for the Cambridge
of New York.  It turned out it was way, way uptown: an hour uptown
by air.Some people know at 16 what sort of work they're going to do, but
in most ambitious kids, ambition seems to precede anything specific
to be ambitious about.  They know they want to do something great.
They just haven't decided yet whether they're going to be a rock
star or a brain surgeon.  There's nothing wrong with that.  But it
means if you have this most common type of ambition, you'll probably
have to figure out where to live by trial and error.  You'll
probably have to find the city where you feel at home to know what sort of
ambition you have.Notes[1]
This is one of the advantages of not having the universities
in your country controlled by the government.  When governments
decide how to allocate resources, political deal-making causes
things to be spread out geographically.  No central goverment would
put its two best universities in the same town, unless it was the
capital (which would cause other problems).  But scholars seem to
like to cluster together as much as people in any other field, and
when given the freedom to they derive the same advantages from it.[2]
There are still a few old professors in Palo Alto, but one by
one they die and their houses are transformed by developers into
McMansions and sold to VPs of Bus Dev.[3]
How many times have you read about startup founders who continued
to live inexpensively as their companies took off?  Who continued
to dress in jeans and t-shirts, to drive the old car they had in
grad school, and so on?  If you did that in New York, people would
treat you like shit.  If you walk into a fancy restaurant in San
Francisco wearing a jeans and a t-shirt, they're nice to you; who
knows who you might be?  Not in New York.One sign of a city's potential as a technology center is the number
of restaurants that still require jackets for men.  According to
Zagat's there are none in San Francisco, LA, Boston, or Seattle, 
4 in DC, 6 in Chicago, 8 in London, 13 in New York, and 20 in Paris.(Zagat's lists the Ritz Carlton Dining Room in SF as requiring jackets
but I couldn't believe it, so I called to check and in fact they
don't. Apparently there's only one restaurant left on the entire West
Coast that still requires jackets: The French Laundry in Napa Valley.)[4]
Ideas are one step upstream from economic power, so it's
conceivable that intellectual centers like Cambridge will one day
have an edge over Silicon Valley like the one the Valley has over
New York.This seems unlikely at the moment; if anything Boston is falling
further and further behind.  The only reason I even mention the
possibility is that the path from ideas to startups has recently
been getting smoother.  It's a lot easier now for a couple of hackers
with no business experience to start a startup than it was 10 years
ago.  If you extrapolate another 20 years, maybe the balance of
power will start to shift back.  I wouldn't bet on it, but I wouldn't
bet against it either.[5]
If Paris is where people care most about art, why is New York
the center of gravity of the art business?  Because in the twentieth
century, art as brand split apart from art as stuff.  New York is
where the richest buyers are, but all they demand from art is brand,
and since you can base brand on anything with a sufficiently
identifiable style, you may as well use the local stuff.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Sarah Harlin, Jessica Livingston,
Jackie McDonough, Robert Morris, and David Sloo for reading drafts
of this.Italian TranslationPortuguese TranslationChinese TranslationKorean Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Note: The strategy described at the end of this essay didn't work.
It would work for a while, and then I'd gradually find myself
using the Internet on my work computer.  I'm trying other
strategies now, but I think this time I'll wait till I'm sure
they work before writing about them.May 2008Procrastination feeds on distractions.  Most people find it
uncomfortable just to sit and do nothing; you avoid work by doing
something else.So one way to beat procrastination is to starve it of distractions.
But that's not as straightforward as it sounds, because there are
people working hard to distract you.  Distraction is not a static
obstacle that you avoid like you might avoid a rock in the road.
Distraction seeks you out.Chesterfield described dirt as matter out of place.  Distracting
is, similarly, desirable at the wrong time.  And technology is
continually being refined to produce more and more desirable things.
Which means that as we learn to avoid one class of distractions,
new ones constantly appear, like drug-resistant bacteria.Television, for example, has after 50 years of refinement reached
the point where it's like visual crack.  I realized when I was 13
that TV was addictive, so I stopped watching it.  But I read recently
 that the average American watches 
4 hours 
of TV a day.  A quarter
of their life.TV is in decline now, but only because people have found even more
addictive ways of wasting time.  And what's especially dangerous
is that many happen at your computer.  This is no accident.  An
ever larger percentage of office workers sit in front of computers
connected to the Internet, and distractions always evolve toward
the procrastinators.I remember when computers were, for me at least, exclusively for
work.  I might occasionally dial up a server to get mail or ftp
files, but most of the time I was offline.  All I could do was write
and program.  Now I feel as if someone snuck a television onto my
desk.  Terribly addictive things are just a click away.  Run into
an obstacle in what you're working on?  Hmm, I wonder what's new
online.  Better check.After years of carefully avoiding classic time sinks like TV, games,
and Usenet, I still managed to fall prey to distraction, because
I didn't realize that it evolves.  Something that used to be safe,
using the Internet, gradually became more and more dangerous.  Some
days I'd wake up, get a cup of tea and check the news, then check
email, then check the news again, then answer a few emails, then
suddenly notice it was almost lunchtime and I hadn't gotten any real
work done.  And this started to happen more and more often.It took me surprisingly long to realize how distracting the Internet
had become, because the problem was intermittent.  I ignored it the
way you let yourself ignore a bug that only appears intermittently.  When
I was in the middle of a project, distractions weren't really a
problem.  It was when I'd finished one project and was deciding
what to do next that they always bit me.Another reason it was hard to notice the danger of this new type
of distraction was that social customs hadn't yet caught up with
it.  If I'd spent a whole morning sitting on a sofa watching TV,
I'd have noticed very quickly.  That's a known danger sign, like
drinking alone.  But using the Internet still looked and felt a 
lot like work.Eventually, though, it became clear that the Internet had become so much
more distracting that I had to start treating it differently.
Basically, I had to add a new application to my list of known time
sinks: Firefox.* * *The problem is a hard one to solve because most people still need
the Internet for some things.  If you drink too much, you can solve
that problem by stopping entirely.  But you can't solve the problem
of overeating by stopping eating.  I couldn't simply avoid the 
Internet entirely, as I'd done with previous time sinks.At first I tried rules.  For example, I'd tell myself I was only
going to use the Internet twice a day.  But these schemes never
worked for long.  Eventually something would come up that required
me to use it more than that.  And then I'd gradually slip back
into my old ways.Addictive things have to be treated as if they were sentient
adversaries—as if there were a little man in your head always
cooking up the most plausible arguments for doing whatever you're
trying to stop doing.  If you leave a path to it, he'll find it.The key seems to be visibility.  The biggest ingredient in most bad habits
is denial.  So you have to make it so that you can't merely slip
into doing the thing you're trying to avoid.  It has to set off
alarms.Maybe in the long term the right answer for dealing with Internet
distractions will be 
software that watches and controls them.  But
in the meantime I've found a more drastic solution that definitely
works: to set up a separate computer for using the Internet.I now leave wifi turned off on my main computer except when I need
to transfer a file or edit a web page, and I have a separate laptop 
on the other side
of the room that I use to check mail or browse the web.  (Irony of
ironies, it's the computer Steve Huffman wrote Reddit on.  When
Steve and Alexis auctioned off their old laptops for charity, I
bought them for the Y Combinator museum.)My rule is that I can spend as much time online as I want, as long
as I do it on that computer.  And this turns out to be enough.  When
I have to sit on the other side of the room to check email or browse
the web, I become much more aware of it.  Sufficiently aware, in
my case at least, that it's hard to spend more than about an hour
a day online.And my main computer is now freed for work.  If you try this trick,
you'll probably be struck by how different it feels when your
computer is disconnected from the Internet.  It was alarming to me
how foreign it felt to sit in front of a computer that could
only be used for work, because that showed how much time I must
have been wasting.Wow.  All I can do at this computer is work.  Ok, I better work
then.That's the good part.  Your old bad habits now help you to work.
You're used to sitting in front of that computer for hours at a
time.   But you can't browse the web or check email now.  What are
you going to do?  You can't just sit there.  So you start working.Good and Bad ProcrastinationSpanish TranslationArabic TranslationCatalan TranslationRussian TranslationSpanish Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

May 2008Adults lie constantly to kids.  I'm not saying we should stop, but
I think we should at least examine which lies we tell and why.There may also be a benefit to us.  We were all lied to as kids,
and some of the lies we were told still affect us.  So by studying
the ways adults lie to kids, we may be able to clear our heads of
lies we were told.I'm using the word "lie" in a very general sense: not just overt
falsehoods, but also all the more subtle ways we mislead kids.
Though "lie" has negative connotations, I don't mean to suggest we
should never do this—just that we should pay attention when
we do.
[1]One of the most remarkable things about the way we lie to kids is
how broad the conspiracy is.  All adults know what their culture 
lies to kids about: they're the questions you answer "Ask
your parents."  If a kid asked who won the World Series in 1982
or what the atomic weight of carbon was, you could just tell him.
But if a kid asks you "Is there a God?" or "What's a prostitute?"
you'll probably say "Ask your parents."Since we all agree, kids see few cracks in the view of the world
presented to them.  The biggest disagreements are between parents
and schools, but even those are small. Schools are careful what
they say about controversial topics, and if they do contradict what
parents want their kids to believe, parents either pressure the
school into keeping 
quiet or move their kids to a new school.The conspiracy is so thorough that most kids who discover it do so
only by discovering internal contradictions in what they're told.
It can be traumatic for the ones who wake up during the operation.
Here's what happened to Einstein:

  Through the reading of popular scientific books I soon reached
  the conviction that much in the stories of the Bible could not
  be true.  The consequence was a positively fanatic freethinking
  coupled with the impression that youth is intentionally being
  deceived by the state through lies: it was a crushing impression.
  [2]

I remember that feeling.  By 15 I was convinced the world was corrupt
from end to end.  That's why movies like The Matrix have such
resonance.  Every kid grows up in a fake world.  In a way it would
be easier if the forces behind it were as clearly differentiated
as a bunch of evil machines, and one could make a clean break just by
taking a pill.ProtectionIf you ask adults why they lie to kids, the most common reason they
give is to protect them.  And kids do need protecting.  The environment
you want to create for a newborn child will be quite unlike the
streets of a big city.That seems so obvious it seems wrong to call it a lie.  It's certainly
not a bad lie to tell, to give a baby the impression the world is
quiet and warm and safe.  But this harmless type of lie can turn
sour if left unexamined.Imagine if you tried to keep someone in as protected an environment
as a newborn till age 18.  To mislead someone so grossly about the
world would seem not protection but abuse.  That's an extreme
example, of course; when parents do that sort of thing it becomes
national news.  But you see the same problem on a smaller scale in
the malaise teenagers feel in suburbia.The main purpose of suburbia is to provide a protected environment
for children to grow up in.  And it seems great for 10 year olds.
I liked living in suburbia when I was 10.  I didn't notice how
sterile it was.  My whole world was no bigger than a few friends'
houses I bicycled to and some woods I ran around in.  On a log scale
I was midway between crib and globe.  A suburban street was just
the right size.  But as I grew older, suburbia started to feel
suffocatingly fake.Life can be pretty good at 10 or 20, but it's often frustrating at
15.  This is too big a problem to solve here, but certainly one
reason life sucks at 15 is that kids are trapped in a world designed
for 10 year olds.What do parents hope to protect their children from by raising them
in suburbia?  A friend who moved out of Manhattan said merely that
her 3 year old daughter "saw too much."  Off the top of my head,
that might include: people who are high or drunk, poverty, madness,
gruesome medical conditions, sexual behavior of various degrees of
oddness, and violent anger.I think it's the anger that would worry me most if I had a 3 year
old.  I was 29 when I moved to New York and I was surprised even
then.  I wouldn't want a 3 year old to see some of the disputes I
saw.  It would be too frightening.  A lot of the things adults
conceal from smaller children, they conceal because they'd be
frightening, not because they want to conceal the existence of such
things.  Misleading the child is just a byproduct.This seems one of the most justifiable types of lying adults do to
kids.  But because the lies are indirect we don't keep a very strict
accounting of them.  Parents know they've concealed the facts about
sex, and many at some point sit their kids down and explain more.
But few tell their kids about the differences between the real world
and the cocoon they grew up in.  Combine this with the confidence
parents try to instill in their kids, and every year you get a new
crop of 18 year olds who think they know how to run the world.Don't all 18 year olds think they know how to run the world?  Actually
this seems to be a recent innovation, no more than about 100 years old.
In preindustrial times teenage kids were junior members of the adult
world and comparatively well aware of their shortcomings.  They
could see they weren't as strong or skillful as the village smith.
In past times people lied to kids about some things more than we
do now, but the lies implicit in an artificial, protected environment
are a recent invention.  Like a lot of new inventions, the rich got
this first.  Children of kings and great magnates were the first
to grow up out of touch with the world.  Suburbia means half the
population can live like kings in that respect.Sex (and Drugs)I'd have different worries about raising teenage kids in New York.
I'd worry less about what they'd see, and more about what they'd
do.  I went to college with a lot of kids who grew up in Manhattan,
and as a rule they seemed pretty jaded.  They seemed to have lost
their virginity at an average of about 14 and by college had tried
more drugs than I'd even heard of.The reasons parents don't want their teenage kids having sex are
complex.  There are some obvious dangers: pregnancy and sexually
transmitted diseases.  But those aren't the only reasons parents
don't want their kids having sex.  The average parents of a 14 year
old girl would hate the idea of her having sex even if there were
zero risk of pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases.Kids can probably sense they aren't being told the whole story.
After all, pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases are just as
much a problem for adults, and they have sex.What really bothers parents about their teenage kids having sex?
Their dislike of the idea is so visceral it's probably inborn.  But
if it's inborn it should be universal, and there are plenty of
societies where parents don't mind if their teenage kids have
sex—indeed, where it's normal for 14 year olds to become
mothers.  So what's going on?  There does seem to be a universal
taboo against sex with prepubescent children.  One can imagine
evolutionary reasons for that.  And I think this is the main reason
parents in industrialized societies dislike teenage kids having
sex.  They still think of them as children, even though biologically
they're not, so the taboo against child sex still has force.One thing adults conceal about sex they also conceal about drugs:
that it can cause great pleasure.  That's what makes sex and drugs
so dangerous. The desire for them can cloud one's judgement—which
is especially frightening when the judgement being clouded is the
already wretched judgement of a teenage kid.Here parents' desires conflict.  Older societies told kids they had
bad judgement, but modern parents want their children to be confident.
This may well be a better plan than the old one of putting them in
their place, but it has the side effect that after having implicitly
lied to kids about how good their judgement is, we then have to lie
again about all the things they might get into trouble with if they
believed us.If parents told their kids the truth about sex and drugs, it would
be: the reason you should avoid these things is that you have lousy
judgement.  People with twice your experience still get burned by
them.  But this may be one of those cases where the truth wouldn't
be convincing, because one of the symptoms of bad judgement is
believing you have good judgement.  When you're too weak to lift
something, you can tell, but when you're making a decision impetuously,
you're all the more sure of it.InnocenceAnother reason parents don't want their kids having sex is that
they want to keep them innocent.  Adults have a certain model of
how kids are supposed to behave, and it's different from what they
expect of other adults.One of the most obvious differences is the words kids are allowed
to use.  Most parents use words when talking to other adults that
they wouldn't want their kids using.  They try to hide even the
existence of these words for as long as they can.  And this is
another of those conspiracies everyone participates in: everyone
knows you're not supposed to swear in front of kids.I've never heard more different explanations for anything parents
tell kids than why they shouldn't swear.  Every parent I know forbids
their children to swear, and yet no two of them have the same
justification.  It's clear most start with not wanting kids to
swear, then make up the reason afterward.So my theory about what's going on is that the function of
swearwords is to mark the speaker as an adult.  There's no difference
in the meaning of "shit" and "poopoo."  So why should one be ok for
kids to say and one forbidden?  The only explanation is: by definition.
[3]Why does it bother adults so much when kids do things reserved for
adults?   The idea of a foul-mouthed, cynical 10 year old leaning
against a lamppost with a cigarette hanging out of the corner of
his mouth is very disconcerting.  But why?One reason we want kids to be innocent is that we're programmed to
like certain kinds of helplessness.  I've several times heard mothers
say they deliberately refrained from correcting their young children's
mispronunciations because they were so cute.  And if you think about
it, cuteness is helplessness. Toys and cartoon characters meant to
be cute always have clueless expressions and stubby, ineffectual
limbs.It's not surprising we'd have an inborn desire to love and protect
helpless creatures, considering human offspring are so helpless for
so long.  Without the helplessness that makes kids cute, they'd be
very annoying.  They'd merely seem like incompetent adults.  But
there's more to it than that.  The reason our hypothetical jaded
10 year old bothers me so much is not just that he'd be annoying,
but that he'd have cut off his prospects for growth so early.  To
be jaded you have to think you know how the world works, and any
theory a 10 year old had about that would probably be a pretty
narrow one.Innocence is also open-mindedness.  We want kids to be innocent so
they can continue to learn.  Paradoxical as it sounds, there are
some kinds of knowledge that get in the way of other kinds of
knowledge.  If you're going to learn that the world is a brutal
place full of people trying to take advantage of one another, you're
better off learning it last.  Otherwise you won't bother learning
much more.Very smart adults often seem unusually innocent, and I don't think
this is a coincidence.  I think they've deliberately avoided learning
about certain things.  Certainly I do.  I used to think I wanted
to know everything.  Now I know I don't.DeathAfter sex, death is the topic adults lie most conspicuously about
to kids.  Sex I believe they conceal because of deep taboos.  But
why do we conceal death from kids?   Probably because small children
are particularly horrified by it.  They want to feel safe, and death
is the ultimate threat.One of the most spectacular lies our parents told us was about the
death of our first cat.  Over the years, as we asked for more
details, they were compelled to invent more, so the story grew quite
elaborate.  The cat had died at the vet's office.  Of what?  Of the
anaesthesia itself.  Why was the cat at the vet's office?  To be
fixed.  And why had such a routine operation killed it?  It wasn't
the vet's fault; the cat had a congenitally weak heart; the anaesthesia
was too much for it; but there was no way anyone could have
known this in advance.  It was not till we were in our twenties
that the truth came out: my sister, then about three, had accidentally
stepped on the cat and broken its back.They didn't feel the need to tell us the cat was now happily in cat
heaven.  My parents never claimed that people or animals who died
had "gone to a better place," or that we'd meet them again.  It
didn't seem to harm us.My grandmother told us an edited version of the death of my
grandfather.  She said they'd been sitting reading one day, and
when she said something to him, he didn't answer.  He seemed to be
asleep, but when she tried to rouse him, she couldn't.  "He was
gone." Having a heart attack sounded like falling asleep.  Later I
learned it hadn't been so neat, and the heart attack had taken most
of a day to kill him.Along with such outright lies, there must have been a lot of changing
the subject when death came up.  I can't remember that, of course,
but I can infer it from the fact that I didn't really grasp I was
going to die till I was about 19.  How could I have missed something
so obvious for so long?  Now that I've seen parents managing the
subject, I can see how: questions about death are gently but firmly
turned aside.On this topic, especially, they're met half-way by kids.  Kids often
want to be lied to.  They want to believe they're living in a
comfortable, safe world as much as their parents want them to believe
it.
[4]IdentitySome parents feel a strong adherence to an ethnic or religious group
and want their kids to feel it too.  This usually requires two
different kinds of lying: the first is to tell the child that he
or she is an X, and the second is whatever specific lies Xes
differentiate themselves by believing.
[5]Telling a child they have a particular ethnic or religious identity
is one of the stickiest things you can tell them.  Almost anything
else you tell a kid, they can change their mind about later when
they start to think for themselves.  But if you tell a kid they're
a member of a certain group, that seems nearly impossible to shake.This despite the fact that it can be one of the most premeditated
lies parents tell.  When parents are of different religions, they'll
often agree between themselves that their children will be "raised
as Xes."  And it works. The kids obligingly grow up considering
themselves as Xes, despite the fact that if their parents had chosen
the other way, they'd have grown up considering themselves as Ys.One reason this works so well is the second kind of lie involved.
The truth is common property.  You can't distinguish your group by
doing things that are rational, and believing things that are true.
If you want to set yourself apart from other people, you have to
do things that are arbitrary, and believe things that are false.
And after having spent their whole lives doing things that are arbitrary
and believing things that are false, and being regarded as odd by
"outsiders" on that account, the cognitive dissonance pushing
children to regard themselves as Xes must be enormous.  If they
aren't an X, why are they attached to all these arbitrary beliefs
and customs?  If they aren't an X, why do all the non-Xes call them
one?This form of lie is not without its uses.  You can use it to carry
a payload of beneficial beliefs, and they will also become part of
the child's identity.  You can tell the child that in addition to
never wearing the color yellow, believing the world was created by
a giant rabbit, and always snapping their fingers before eating
fish, Xes are also particularly honest and industrious.  Then X
children will grow up feeling it's part of their identity to be
honest and industrious.This probably accounts for a lot of the spread of modern religions,
and explains why their doctrines are a combination of the useful
and the bizarre.  The bizarre half is what makes the religion stick,
and the useful half is the payload.
[6]AuthorityOne of the least excusable reasons adults lie to kids is to maintain
power over them.  Sometimes these lies are truly sinister, like a
child molester telling his victims they'll get in trouble if they
tell anyone what happened to them.  Others seem more innocent; it
depends how badly adults lie to maintain their power, and what they
use it for.Most adults make some effort to conceal their flaws from children.
Usually their motives are mixed.  For example, a father who has an
affair generally conceals it from his children.  His motive is
partly that it would worry them, partly that this would introduce
the topic of sex, and partly (a larger part than he would admit)
that he doesn't want to tarnish himself in their eyes.If you want to learn what lies are told to kids, read almost any
book written to teach them about "issues."
[7]
Peter Mayle wrote
one called Why Are We Getting a Divorce?  It begins with the three
most important things to remember about divorce, one of which is:

  You shouldn't put the blame on one parent, because divorce is
  never only one person's fault.
  [8]

Really?  When a man runs off with his secretary, is it always partly
his wife's fault?  But I can see why Mayle might have said this.
Maybe it's more important for kids to respect their parents than
to know the truth about them.But because adults conceal their flaws, and at the same time insist
on high standards of behavior for kids, a lot of kids grow up feeling
they fall hopelessly short.  They walk around feeling horribly evil
for having used a swearword, while in fact most of the adults around
them are doing much worse things.This happens in intellectual as well as moral questions.  The more
confident people are, the more willing they seem to be to answer a
question "I don't know."  Less confident people feel they have to
have an answer or they'll look bad.  My parents were pretty good
about admitting when they didn't know things, but I must have been
told a lot of lies of this type by teachers, because I rarely heard
a teacher say "I don't know" till I got to college.  I remember
because it was so surprising to hear someone say that in front of
a class.The first hint I had that teachers weren't omniscient came in sixth
grade, after my father contradicted something I'd learned in school.
When I protested that the teacher had said the opposite, my father
replied that the guy had no idea what he was talking about—that
he was just an elementary school teacher, after all.Just a teacher?  The phrase seemed almost grammatically ill-formed.
Didn't teachers know everything about the subjects they taught?
And if not, why were they the ones teaching us?The sad fact is, US public school teachers don't generally understand
the stuff they're teaching very well.  There are some sterling
exceptions, but as a rule people planning to go into teaching rank
academically near the bottom of the college population.  So the
fact that I still thought at age 11 that teachers were infallible
shows what a job the system must have done on my brain.SchoolWhat kids get taught in school is a complex mix of lies.  The most
excusable are those told to simplify ideas to make them easy to
learn.  The problem is, a lot of propaganda gets slipped into the
curriculum in the name of simplification.Public school textbooks represent a compromise between what various
powerful groups want kids to be told.  The lies are rarely overt.
Usually they consist either of omissions or of over-emphasizing
certain topics at the expense of others.  The view of history we
got in elementary school was a crude hagiography, with at least one
representative of each powerful group.The famous scientists I remember were Einstein, Marie Curie, and
George Washington Carver.   Einstein was a big deal because his
work led to the atom bomb.  Marie Curie was involved with X-rays.
But I was mystified about Carver.  He seemed to have done stuff
with peanuts.It's obvious now that he was on the list because he was black (and
for that matter that Marie Curie was on it because she was a woman),
but as a kid I was confused for years about him.  I wonder if it
wouldn't have been better just to tell us the truth: that there
weren't any famous black scientists.  Ranking George Washington
Carver with Einstein misled us not only about science, but about
the obstacles blacks faced in his time.As subjects got softer, the lies got more frequent.  By the time
you got to politics and recent history, what we were taught was
pretty much pure propaganda.  For example, we were taught to regard
political leaders as saints—especially the recently martyred
Kennedy and King.  It was astonishing to learn later that they'd
both been serial womanizers, and that Kennedy was a speed freak to
boot.  (By the time King's plagiarism emerged, I'd lost the ability
to be surprised by the misdeeds of famous people.)I doubt you could teach kids recent history without teaching them
lies, because practically everyone who has anything to say about
it has some kind of spin to put on it.  Much recent history consists
of spin.  It would probably be better just to teach them metafacts
like that.Probably the biggest lie told in schools, though, is that the way
to succeed is through following "the rules."  In fact most such
rules are just hacks to manage large groups efficiently.PeaceOf all the reasons we lie to kids, the most powerful is probably
the same mundane reason they lie to us.Often when we lie to people it's not part of any conscious strategy,
but because they'd react violently to the truth.  Kids, almost by
definition, lack self-control.  They react violently to things—and
so they get lied to a lot. 
[9]A few Thanksgivings ago, a friend of mine found himself in a situation
that perfectly illustrates the complex motives we have when we lie
to kids.  As the roast turkey appeared on the table, his alarmingly
perceptive 5 year old son suddenly asked if the turkey had wanted
to die.  Foreseeing disaster, my friend and his wife rapidly
improvised: yes, the turkey had wanted to die, and in fact had lived
its whole life with the aim of being their Thanksgiving dinner.
And that (phew) was the end of that.Whenever we lie to kids to protect them, we're usually also lying
to keep the peace.One consequence of this sort of calming lie is that we grow up
thinking horrible things are normal.  It's hard for us to feel a
sense of urgency as adults over something we've literally been
trained not to worry about.  When I was about 10 I saw a documentary
on pollution that put me into a panic.  It seemed the planet was
being irretrievably ruined.  I went to my mother afterward to ask
if this was so.  I don't remember what she said, but she made me
feel better, so I stopped worrying about it.That was probably the best way to handle a frightened 10 year old.
But we should understand the price.  This sort of lie is one of the
main reasons bad things persist: we're all trained to ignore them.DetoxA sprinter in a race almost immediately enters a state called "oxygen
debt."  His body switches to an emergency source of energy that's
faster than regular aerobic respiration.  But this process builds
up waste products that ultimately require extra oxygen to break
down, so at the end of the race he has to stop and pant for a while
to recover.We arrive at adulthood with a kind of truth debt.  We were told a
lot of lies to get us (and our parents) through our childhood.  Some
may have been necessary.  Some probably weren't.  But we all arrive
at adulthood with heads full of lies.There's never a point where the adults sit you down and explain all
the lies they told you.  They've forgotten most of them.  So if
you're going to clear these lies out of your head, you're going to
have to do it yourself.Few do.  Most people go through life with bits of packing material
adhering to their minds and never know it.  You probably never can
completely undo the effects of lies you were told as a kid, but
it's worth trying.  I've found that whenever I've been able to undo
a lie I was told, a lot of other things fell into place.Fortunately, once you arrive at adulthood you get a valuable new
resource you can use to figure out what lies you were told.  You're
now one of the liars.  You get to watch behind the scenes as adults
spin the world for the next generation of kids.The first step in clearing your head is to realize how far you are
from a neutral observer.  When I left high school I was, I thought,
a complete skeptic.  I'd realized high school was crap.  I thought
I was ready to question everything I knew.  But among the many other
things I was ignorant of was how much debris there already was in
my head.  It's not enough to consider your mind a blank slate.  You
have to consciously erase it.Notes[1]
One reason I stuck with such a brutally simple word is that
the lies we tell kids are probably not quite as harmless as we
think.  If you look at what adults told children in the past, it's
shocking how much they lied to them.  Like us, they did it with the
best intentions.  So if we think we're as open as one could reasonably
be with children, we're probably fooling ourselves.  Odds are people
in 100 years will be as shocked at some of the lies we tell as we
are at some of the lies people told 100 years ago.I can't predict which these will be, and I don't want to write an
essay that will seem dumb in 100 years.  So instead of using special
euphemisms for lies that seem excusable according to present fashions,
I'm just going to call all our lies lies.(I have omitted one type: lies told to play games with kids'
credulity.  These range from "make-believe," which is not really a
lie because it's told with a wink, to the frightening lies told by
older siblings.   There's not much to say about these: I wouldn't
want the first type to go away, and wouldn't expect the second type
to.)[2]
Calaprice, Alice (ed.), The Quotable Einstein, Princeton
University Press, 1996.[3]
If you ask parents why kids shouldn't swear, the less educated
ones usually reply with some question-begging answer like "it's
inappropriate," while the more educated ones come up with elaborate
rationalizations.  In fact the less educated parents seem closer
to the truth.[4]
As a friend with small children pointed out, it's easy for small
children to consider themselves immortal, because time seems to
pass so slowly for them.  To a 3 year old, a day feels like a month
might to an adult.  So 80 years sounds to him like 2400 years would
to us.[5]
I realize I'm going to get endless grief for classifying religion
as a type of lie.  Usually people skirt that issue with some
equivocation implying that lies believed for a sufficiently long
time by sufficiently large numbers of people are immune to the usual
standards for truth.  But because I can't predict which lies future
generations will consider inexcusable, I can't safely omit any type
we tell.  Yes, it seems unlikely that religion will be out of fashion
in 100 years, but no more unlikely than it would have seemed to
someone in 1880 that schoolchildren in 1980 would be taught that
masturbation was perfectly normal and not to feel guilty about it.[6]
Unfortunately the payload can consist of bad customs as well
as good ones.  For example, there are certain qualities that some
groups in America consider "acting white."  In fact most of them
could as accurately be called "acting Japanese."  There's nothing
specifically white about such customs. They're common to all cultures
with long traditions of living in cities.  So it is probably a
losing bet for a group to consider behaving the opposite way as
part of its identity.[7]
In this context, "issues" basically means "things we're going
to lie to them about."  That's why there's a special name for these
topics.[8]
Mayle, Peter, Why Are We Getting a Divorce?, Harmony, 1988.[9]
The ironic thing is, this is also the main reason kids lie to
adults.  If you freak out when people tell you alarming things,
they won't tell you them.  Teenagers don't tell their parents what
happened that night they were supposed to be staying at a friend's
house for the same reason parents don't tell 5 year olds the truth
about the Thanksgiving turkey.  They'd freak if they knew.Thanks to Sam Altman, Marc Andreessen, Trevor Blackwell,
Patrick Collison, Jessica Livingston, Jackie McDonough, Robert
Morris, and David Sloo for reading drafts of this.  And since there
are some controversial ideas here, I should add that none of them
agreed with everything in it.German TranslationFrench TranslationRussian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2008(This essay is derived from a talk at the 2008 Startup School.)About a month after we started Y Combinator we came up with the
phrase that became our motto: Make something people want.  We've
learned a lot since then, but if I were choosing now that's still
the one I'd pick.Another thing we tell founders is not to worry too much about the
business model, at least at first.  Not because making money is
unimportant, but because it's so much easier than building something
great.A couple weeks ago I realized that if you put those two ideas
together, you get something surprising.  Make something people want.
Don't worry too much about making money.  What you've got is a
description of a charity.When you get an unexpected result like this, it could either be a
bug or a new discovery.  Either businesses aren't supposed to be
like charities, and we've proven by reductio ad absurdum that one
or both of the principles we began with is false.  Or we have a new
idea.I suspect it's the latter, because as soon as this thought occurred
to me, a whole bunch of other things fell into place.ExamplesFor example, Craigslist.  It's not a charity, but they run it like
one.  And they're astoundingly successful.  When you scan down the
list of most popular web sites, the number of employees at Craigslist
looks like a misprint. Their revenues aren't as high as they could
be, but most startups would be happy to trade places with them.In Patrick O'Brian's novels, his captains always try to get upwind
of their opponents.  If you're upwind, you decide when and if to
engage the other ship.  Craigslist is effectively upwind of enormous
revenues.  They'd face some challenges if they wanted to make more,
but not the sort you face when you're tacking upwind, trying to
force a crappy product on ambivalent users by spending ten times
as much on sales as on development.  [1]I'm not saying startups should aim to end up like Craigslist.
They're a product of unusual circumstances.  But they're a good
model for the early phases.Google looked a lot like a charity in the beginning. They didn't
have ads for over a year.  At year 1, Google was indistinguishable
from a nonprofit.  If a nonprofit or government organization had
started a project to index the web, Google at year 1 is the limit
of what they'd have produced.Back when I was working on spam filters I thought it would be a
good idea to have a web-based email service with good spam filtering.
I wasn't thinking of it as a company.  I just wanted to keep people
from getting spammed.  But as I thought more about this project, I
realized it would probably have to be a company.  It would cost
something to run, and it would be a pain to fund with grants and
donations.That was a surprising realization.  Companies often claim to be
benevolent, but it was surprising to realize there were purely
benevolent projects that had to be embodied as companies to work.I didn't want to start another company, so I didn't do it.  But if
someone had, they'd probably be quite rich now.  There was a window
of about two years when spam was increasing rapidly but all the big
email services had terrible filters.  If someone had launched a
new, spam-free mail service, users would have flocked to it.Notice the pattern here?  From either direction we get to the same
spot.  If you start from successful startups, you find they often
behaved like nonprofits.  And if you start from ideas for nonprofits,
you find they'd often make good startups.PowerHow wide is this territory?  Would all good nonprofits be good
companies?  Possibly not.  What makes Google so valuable is that
their users have money.  If you make people with money love you,
you can probably get some of it.  But could you also base a successful
startup on behaving like a nonprofit to people who don't have money?
Could you, for example, grow a successful startup out of curing an
unfashionable but deadly disease like malaria?I'm not sure, but I suspect that if you pushed this idea, you'd be
surprised how far it would go.  For example, people who apply to Y
Combinator don't generally have much money, and yet we can profit
by helping them, because with our help they could make money.  Maybe
the situation is similar with malaria.  Maybe an organization that
helped lift its weight off a country could benefit from the resulting
growth.I'm not proposing this is a serious idea.  I don't know anything
about malaria.  But I've been kicking ideas around long enough to
know when I come across a powerful one.One way to guess how far an idea extends is to ask yourself at what
point you'd bet against it.  The thought of betting against benevolence
is alarming in the same way as saying that something is technically
impossible.  You're just asking to be made a fool of, because these
are such powerful forces.  [2]For example, initially I thought maybe this principle only applied
to Internet startups.  Obviously it worked for Google, but what
about Microsoft?  Surely Microsoft isn't benevolent?  But when I
think back to the beginning, they were.  Compared to IBM they were
like Robin Hood.  When IBM introduced the PC, they thought they
were going to make money selling hardware at high prices.  But by
gaining control of the PC standard, Microsoft opened up the market
to any manufacturer.  Hardware prices plummeted, and lots of people
got to have computers who couldn't otherwise have afforded them.
It's the sort of thing you'd expect Google to do.Microsoft isn't so benevolent now.  Now when one thinks of what
Microsoft does to users, all the verbs that come to mind begin with
F.  [3] And yet it doesn't seem to pay.
Their stock price has been flat for years.  Back when they were
Robin Hood, their stock price rose like Google's.  Could there be
a connection?You can see how there would be.  When you're small, you can't bully
customers, so you have to charm them.  Whereas when you're big you
can maltreat them at will, and you tend to, because it's easier
than satisfying them.  You grow big by being nice, but you can stay
big by being mean.You get away with it till the underlying conditions change, and
then all your victims escape.  So "Don't be evil" may be the most
valuable thing Paul Buchheit made for Google, because it may turn
out to be an elixir of corporate youth.  I'm sure they find it
constraining, but think how valuable it will be if it saves them
from lapsing into the fatal laziness that afflicted Microsoft and
IBM.The curious thing is, this elixir is freely available to any other
company.  Anyone can adopt "Don't be evil."  The catch is that
people will hold you to it.  So I don't think you're going to see
record labels or tobacco companies using this discovery.MoraleThere's a lot of external evidence that benevolence works.  But how
does it work?  One advantage of investing in a large number of
startups is that you get a lot of data about how they work.  From
what we've seen, being good seems to help startups in three ways:
it improves their morale, it makes other people want to help them,
and above all, it helps them be decisive.Morale is tremendously important to a startup—so important
that morale alone is almost enough to determine success.  Startups
are often described as emotional roller-coasters. One minute you're
going to take over the world, and the next you're doomed.  The
problem with feeling you're doomed is not just that it makes you
unhappy, but that it makes you stop working.  So the downhills
of the roller-coaster are more of a self fulfilling prophecy than
the uphills.  If feeling you're going to succeed makes you work
harder, that probably improves your chances of succeeding, but if
feeling you're going to fail makes you stop working, that practically
guarantees you'll fail.Here's where benevolence comes in.  If you feel you're really helping
people, you'll keep working even when it seems like your startup
is doomed.  Most of us have some amount of natural benevolence.
The mere fact that someone needs you makes you want to help them.
So if you start the kind of startup where users come back each day,
you've basically built yourself a giant tamagotchi.  You've made
something you need to take care of.Blogger is a famous example of a startup that went through really
low lows and survived.  At one point they ran out of money and
everyone left. Evan Williams came in to work the next day, and there
was no one but him.  What kept him going?  Partly that users needed
him.  He was hosting thousands of people's blogs. He couldn't just
let the site die.There are many advantages of launching quickly, but the most important
may be that once you have users, the tamagotchi effect kicks in.
Once you have users to take care of, you're forced to figure out
what will make them happy, and that's actually very valuable
information.The added confidence that comes from trying to help people can
also help you with investors. One of the founders of 
Chatterous told 
me recently that he and his cofounder had decided that this service
was something the world needed, so they were going to keep working
on it no matter what, even if they had to move back to Canada and live
in their parents' basements.Once they realized this, they stopped caring so much what investors thought
about them.  They still met with them, but they weren't going to
die if they didn't get their money.  And you know what?  The investors
got a lot more interested.  They could sense that the Chatterouses
were going to do this startup with or without them.If you're really committed and your startup is cheap to run, you
become very hard to kill.  And practically all startups, even the
most successful, come close to death at some point.  So if doing
good for people gives you a sense of mission that makes you harder
to kill, that alone more than compensates for whatever you lose by
not choosing a more selfish project.HelpAnother advantage of being good is that it makes other people want
to help you.  This too seems to be an inborn trait in humans.One of the startups we've funded, Octopart, is currently locked in
a classic battle of good versus evil.  They're a search site for
industrial components.  A lot of people need to search for components,
and before Octopart there was no good way to do it.  That, it turned
out, was no coincidence.Octopart built the right way to search for components.  Users like
it and they've been growing rapidly.  And yet for most of Octopart's
life, the biggest distributor, Digi-Key, has been trying to force
them take their prices off the site.  Octopart is sending them
customers for free, and yet Digi-Key is trying to make that traffic
stop.  Why?  Because their current business model depends on
overcharging people who have incomplete information about prices.
They don't want search to work.The Octoparts are the nicest guys in the world.  They dropped out
of the PhD program in physics at Berkeley to do this.  They just
wanted to fix a problem they encountered in their research.  Imagine
how much time you could save the world's engineers if they could
do searches online.  So when I hear that a big, evil company is
trying to stop them in order to keep search broken, it makes me
really want to help them. It makes me spend more time on the Octoparts
than I do with most of the other startups we've funded.  It just
made me spend several minutes telling you how great they are.  Why?
Because they're good guys and they're trying to help the world.If you're benevolent, people will rally around you: investors,
customers, other companies, and potential employees.  In the long
term the most important may be the potential employees.  I think
everyone knows now that 
good hackers are much better than mediocre
ones.  If you can attract the best hackers to work for you, as
Google has, you have a big advantage.  And the very best hackers
tend to be idealistic.  They're not desperate for a job.  They can
work wherever they want.  So most want to work on things that will
make the world better.CompassBut the most important advantage of being good is that it acts as
a compass.  One of the hardest parts of doing a startup is that you
have so many choices.  There are just two or three of you, and a
thousand things you could do. How do you decide?Here's the answer: Do whatever's best for your users.  You can hold
onto this like a rope in a hurricane, and it will save you if
anything can.  Follow it and it will take you through everything
you need to do.It's even the answer to questions that seem unrelated, like how to
convince investors to give you money.  If you're a good salesman,
you could try to just talk them into it.  But the more reliable
route is to convince them through your users: if you make something
users love enough to tell their friends, you grow exponentially,
and that will convince any investor.Being good is a particularly useful strategy for making decisions
in complex situations because it's stateless.  It's like telling
the truth.  The trouble with lying is that you have to remember
everything you've said in the past to make sure you don't contradict
yourself.  If you tell the truth you don't have to remember anything,
and that's a really useful property in domains where things happen
fast.For example, Y Combinator has now invested in 80 startups, 57 of
which are still alive.  (The rest have died or merged or been
acquired.)  When you're trying to advise 57 startups, it turns out
you have to have a stateless algorithm.  You can't have ulterior
motives when you have 57 things going on at once, because you can't
remember them.  So our rule is just to do whatever's best for the
founders.  Not because we're particularly benevolent, but because
it's the only algorithm that works on that scale.When you write something telling people to be good, you seem to be
claiming to be good yourself.  So I want to say explicitly that I
am not a particularly good person.  When I was a kid I was firmly
in the camp of bad.  The way adults used the word good, it seemed
to be synonymous with quiet, so I grew up very suspicious of it.You know how there are some people whose names come up in conversation
and everyone says "He's such a great guy?"  People never say
that about me.  The best I get is "he means well."  I am not claiming
to be good.  At best I speak good as a second language.So I'm not suggesting you be good in the usual sanctimonious way.
I'm suggesting it because it works.  It will work not just as a
statement of "values," but as a guide to strategy,
and even a design spec for software.  Don't just not be evil.  Be
good.Notes[1] Fifty years ago
it would have seemed shocking for a public company not to pay
dividends.  Now many tech companies don't.  The markets seem to
have figured out how to value potential dividends.  Maybe that isn't
the last step in this evolution.  Maybe markets will eventually get
comfortable with potential earnings. (VCs already are, and at least
some of them consistently make money.)I realize this sounds like the stuff one used to hear about the
"new economy" during the Bubble.  Believe me, I was not drinking
that kool-aid at the time.  But I'm convinced there were some 
good
ideas buried in Bubble thinking.  For example, it's ok to focus on
growth instead of profits—but only if the growth is genuine.
You can't be buying users; that's a pyramid scheme.   But a company
with rapid, genuine growth is valuable, and eventually markets learn
how to value valuable things.[2] The idea of starting
a company with benevolent aims is currently undervalued, because
the kind of people who currently make that their explicit goal don't
usually do a very good job.It's one of the standard career paths of trustafarians to start
some vaguely benevolent business.  The problem with most of them
is that they either have a bogus political agenda or are feebly
executed.  The trustafarians' ancestors didn't get rich by preserving
their traditional culture; maybe people in Bolivia don't want to
either.  And starting an organic farm, though it's at least
straightforwardly benevolent, doesn't help people on the scale that
Google does.Most explicitly benevolent projects don't hold themselves sufficiently
accountable.  They act as if having good intentions were enough to
guarantee good effects.[3] Users dislike their
new operating system so much that they're starting petitions to
save the old one.  And the old one was nothing special.  The hackers
within Microsoft must know in their hearts that if the company
really cared about users they'd just advise them to switch to OSX.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Paul Buchheit, Jessica Livingston,
and Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.Russian TranslationGerman Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


April 2008Umair Haque 
wrote recently that the reason there aren't more Googles is
that most startups get bought before they can change the world.

  Google, despite serious interest from Microsoft and Yahoo—what
  must have seemed like lucrative interest at the time—didn't
  sell out. Google might simply have been nothing but Yahoo's or
  MSN's search box.Why isn't it? Because Google had a deeply felt sense of purpose:
  a conviction to change the world for the better.

This has a nice sound to it, but it isn't true. 
Google's founders were willing to sell early on.
They just wanted more than acquirers were willing to pay.It was the same with Facebook.  They would have sold, but Yahoo blew it 
by offering too little.Tip for acquirers: when a startup turns you down, consider raising
your offer, because there's a good chance the outrageous price they 
want will later seem a bargain. 
[1]From the evidence I've seen so far,
startups that turn down acquisition offers usually end up doing better.  
Not always, but usually there's a bigger offer coming, or
perhaps even an IPO.Of course, the reason startups do better when they turn down
acquisition offers is not necessarily that all such offers undervalue
startups.  More likely the reason is that the kind of founders who
have the balls to turn down a big offer also tend to be very
successful.  That spirit is exactly what you want in a startup.While I'm sure Larry and Sergey do want to change the world, at
least now, the reason Google survived to become a big, independent
company is the same reason Facebook has so far remained independent:
acquirers underestimated them.Corporate M&A is a strange business in that respect.  They consistently
lose the best deals, because turning down reasonable offers is the
most reliable test you could invent for whether a startup will make
it big.VCsSo what's the real reason there aren't more Googles?  Curiously
enough, it's the same reason Google and Facebook have remained
independent: money guys undervalue the most innovative startups.The reason there aren't more Googles is not that investors encourage
innovative startups to sell out, but that they won't even fund them.
I've learned a lot about VCs during the 3 years we've been doing Y
Combinator, because we often have to work quite closely with them.
The most surprising thing I've learned is how conservative they
are.  VC firms present an image of boldly encouraging innovation.
Only a handful actually do, and even they are more conservative in
reality than you'd guess from reading their sites.I used to think of VCs as piratical: bold but unscrupulous.  On
closer acquaintance they turn out to be more like bureaucrats.
They're more upstanding than I used to think (the good ones, at
least), but less bold.  Maybe the VC industry has changed.  Maybe
they used to be bolder.  
But I suspect it's the startup world that has
changed, not them.  The low cost of starting a startup means the
average good bet is a riskier one, but most existing VC firms still
operate as if they were investing in hardware startups in 1985.Howard Aiken said "Don't worry about people stealing your ideas.
If your ideas are any good, you'll have to ram them down people's
throats." I have a similar feeling when I'm trying to convince VCs
to invest in startups Y Combinator has funded.  They're terrified
of really novel ideas, unless the founders are good enough salesmen
to compensate.But it's the bold ideas that generate the biggest returns.  Any
really good new idea will seem bad to most people; otherwise someone
would already be doing it.  And
yet most VCs are driven by consensus, not just within their firms,
but within the VC community.  The biggest factor determining how a
VC will feel about your startup is how other VCs feel about it.  I
doubt they realize it, but this algorithm guarantees they'll miss
all the very best ideas.  The more people who have to like a new
idea, the more outliers you lose.Whoever the next Google is, they're probably being told right now
by VCs to come back when they have more "traction."Why are VCs so conservative?  It's probably a combination of factors.
The large size of their investments makes them conservative.
Plus they're investing other people's money, which makes
them worry they'll get in trouble if they do something risky and
it fails.  Plus most of them are money guys rather than technical
guys, so they don't understand what the startups they're investing
in do.What's NextThe exciting thing about market economies is that stupidity equals
opportunity.  And so it is in this case.  There is a huge, unexploited
opportunity in startup investing.  Y Combinator funds startups at
the very beginning.  VCs will fund them once they're already starting
to succeed.  But between the two there is a substantial gap.There are companies that will give $20k to a startup that has nothing
more than the founders, and there are companies that will give $2
million to a startup that's already taking off,
but there aren't enough investors who will give $200k to a startup
that seems very promising but still has some things to figure out.
This territory is occupied mostly by
individual angel investors—people like Andy Bechtolsheim, who
gave Google $100k when they seemed promising but still had some
things to figure out. I like angels, but there just aren't enough
of them, and investing is for most of them a part time job.And yet as it gets cheaper to start startups, this sparsely occupied
territory is becoming more and more valuable.   Nowadays a lot of
startups don't want to raise multi-million dollar series A rounds.
They don't need that much money, and they don't want the hassles
that come with it.  The median startup coming out of Y Combinator
wants to raise $250-500k.  When they go to VC firms they have to
ask for more because they know VCs aren't interested in such small
deals.VCs are money managers.  They're looking for ways to put large sums
to work.  But the startup world is evolving away from their current
model.Startups have gotten cheaper.  That means they want less money, but
also that there are more of them.  So you can still get large returns
on large amounts of money; you just have to spread it more broadly.I've tried to explain this to VC firms.  Instead of making one $2
million investment, make five $400k investments.  Would that mean
sitting on too many boards?  Don't sit on their boards.  Would that
mean too much due diligence?  Do less.  If you're investing at a
tenth the valuation, you only have to be a tenth as sure.It seems obvious.  But I've proposed to several VC firms that they
set aside some money and designate one partner to make more, smaller
bets, and they react as if I'd proposed the partners all get nose
rings.  It's remarkable how wedded they are to their standard m.o.But there is a big opportunity here, and one way or the other it's
going to get filled.  Either VCs will evolve down into this gap or,
more likely, new investors will appear to fill it.  That will be a
good thing when it happens, because these new investors will be
compelled by the structure of the investments they make to be ten
times bolder than present day VCs.  And that will get us a lot more
Googles.  At least, as long as acquirers remain stupid.Notes[1]
Another tip: If you want to get all that value, don't destroy the
startup after you buy it.  Give the founders enough autonomy that
they can grow the acquisition into what it would have become.Thanks to Sam Altman, Paul Buchheit, David Hornik, Jessica 
Livingston, Robert Morris, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of this.Russian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2008There are some topics I save up because they'll be so much fun to
write about.  This is one of them: a list of my heroes.I'm not claiming this is a list of the n most admirable people.
Who could make such a list, even if they wanted to?Einstein isn't on the list, for example, even though he probably
deserves to be on any shortlist of admirable people.  I once asked
a physicist friend if Einstein was really as smart as his fame
implies, and she said that yes, he was.  So why isn't he on the
list?  Because I had to ask.  This is a list of people who've
influenced me, not people who would have if I understood their work.My test was to think of someone and ask "is this person my
hero?"  It often returned surprising answers.  For example,
it returned false for Montaigne, who was arguably the inventor of
the essay.  Why?  When I thought
about what it meant to call someone a hero, it meant I'd decide what
to do by asking what they'd do in the same situation.  That's a 
stricter standard than admiration.After I made the list, I looked to see if there was a pattern, and
there was, a very clear one.  Everyone on the list had two qualities:
they cared almost excessively about their work, and they were
absolutely honest.  By honest I don't mean trustworthy so much as
that they never pander: they never say or do something because
that's what the audience wants.  They are all fundamentally subversive
for this reason, though they conceal it to varying degrees.Jack LambertI grew up in Pittsburgh in the 1970s.  Unless you were there it's
hard to imagine how that town felt about the Steelers.   Locally,
all the news was bad.  The steel industry was dying.  But the
Steelers were the best team in football — and moreover, in a
way that seemed to reflect the personality of the city.  They didn't
do anything fancy.  They just got the job done.Other players were more famous: Terry Bradshaw, Franco Harris, Lynn
Swann.  But they played offense, and you always get more attention
for that.  It seemed to me as a twelve year old football expert
that the best of them all was 
Jack Lambert.  And what made him so
good was that he was utterly relentless.  He didn't just care about
playing well; he cared almost too much.  He seemed to regard it as
a personal insult when someone from the other team had possession
of the ball on his side of the line of scrimmage.The suburbs of Pittsburgh in the 1970s were a pretty dull place.
School was boring.  All the adults around were bored with their
jobs working for big companies. Everything that came to us through
the mass media was (a) blandly uniform and (b) produced elsewhere.
Jack Lambert was the exception.  He was like nothing else I'd seen.Kenneth ClarkKenneth Clark is the best nonfiction writer I know of, on any
subject.  Most people who write about art history don't really like
art; you can tell from a thousand little signs.  But Clark did, and
not just intellectually, but the way one anticipates a delicious
dinner.What really makes him stand out, though, is the quality of his
ideas.  His style is deceptively casual, but there is more in 
his books than in a library
of art monographs.  Reading 
The Nude is like a ride in a
Ferrari.  Just as you're getting settled, you're slammed back in
your seat by the acceleration.  Before you can adjust, you're thrown
sideways as the car screeches into the first turn.  His brain throws
off ideas almost too fast to grasp them.  Finally at the end of the
chapter you come to a halt, with your eyes wide and a big smile on
your face.Kenneth Clark was a star in his day, thanks to the documentary
series 
Civilisation.  And if you read only one book about
art history, 
Civilisation is the one I'd recommend.  It's
much better than the drab Sears Catalogs of art that undergraduates
are forced to buy for Art History 101.Larry MihalkoA lot of people have a great teacher at some point in their childhood.
Larry Mihalko was mine.  When I look back it's like there's a line
drawn between third and fourth grade.  After Mr. Mihalko, everything
was different.Why?  First of all, he was intellectually curious.  I had a few
other teachers who were smart, but I wouldn't describe them as
intellectually curious.  In retrospect, he was out of place as an
elementary school teacher, and I think he knew it.  That must have
been hard for him, but it was wonderful for us, his students.  His
class was a constant adventure.  I used to like going to school
every day.The other thing that made him different was that he liked us.  Kids
are good at telling that.  The other teachers were at best benevolently
indifferent.  But Mr.  Mihalko seemed like he actually wanted to
be our friend.  On the last day of fourth grade, he got out one of
the heavy school record players and played James Taylor's "You've
Got a Friend" to us.  Just call out my name, and you know wherever
I am, I'll come running.  He died at 59 of lung cancer.  I've never
cried like I cried at his funeral.LeonardoOne of the things I've learned about making things that I didn't
realize when I was a kid is that much of the best stuff isn't made
for audiences, but for oneself.  You see paintings and drawings in
museums and imagine they were made for you to look at.  Actually a
lot of the best ones were made as a way of exploring the world, not
as a way to please other people.  The best of these explorations
are sometimes more pleasing than stuff made explicitly to please.Leonardo did a lot of things.  One of his most admirable qualities
was that he did so many different things that were admirable.  What
people know of him now is his paintings and his more flamboyant
inventions, like flying machines.  That makes him seem like some
kind of dreamer who sketched artists' conceptions of rocket ships
on the side.  In fact he made a large number of far more practical
technical discoveries.  He was as good an engineer as a painter.His most impressive work, to me, is his 
drawings.  They're clearly
made more as a way of studying the world than producing something
beautiful. And yet they can hold their own with any work of art
ever made.  No one else, before or since, was that good when no one
was looking.Robert MorrisRobert Morris has a very unusual quality: he's never wrong.  It
might seem this would require you to be omniscient, but actually
it's surprisingly easy. Don't say anything unless you're fairly
sure of it.  If you're not omniscient, you just don't end up saying
much.More precisely, the trick is to pay careful attention to how you
qualify what you say.  By using this trick, Robert has, as far as
I know, managed to be mistaken only once, and that was when he was
an undergrad.  When the Mac came out, he said that little desktop
computers would never be suitable for real hacking.It's wrong to call it a trick in his case, though.  If it were a
conscious trick, he would have slipped in a moment of excitement.
With Robert this quality is wired-in.  He has an almost superhuman
integrity.  He's not just generally correct, but also correct about
how correct he is.You'd think it would be such a great thing never to be wrong that
everyone would do this.  It doesn't seem like that much extra work
to pay as much attention to the error on an idea as to the idea
itself.  And yet practically no one does.  I know how hard it is,
because since meeting Robert I've tried to do in software what he
seems to do in hardware.P. G. WodehousePeople are finally starting to admit that Wodehouse was a great
writer.  If you want to be thought a great novelist in your own
time, you have to sound intellectual.  If what you write is popular,
or entertaining, or funny, you're ipso facto suspect.  That makes
Wodehouse doubly impressive, because it meant that to write as he
wanted to, he had to commit to being despised in his own lifetime.Evelyn Waugh called him a great writer, but to most people at the
time that would have read as a chivalrous or deliberately perverse
gesture. At the time any random autobiographical novel by a recent
college grad could count on more respectful treatment from the
literary establishment.Wodehouse may have begun with simple atoms, but the way he composed
them into molecules was near faultless.  His rhythm in particular.
It makes me self-conscious to write about it.  I can think of only
two other writers who came near him for style: Evelyn Waugh and
Nancy Mitford.  Those three used the English language like they
owned it.But Wodehouse has something neither of them did.  He's at ease.
Evelyn Waugh and Nancy Mitford cared what other people thought of
them: he wanted to seem aristocratic; she was afraid she wasn't
smart enough.  But Wodehouse didn't give a damn what anyone thought
of him.  He wrote exactly what he wanted.Alexander CalderCalder's on this list because he makes me happy.  Can his work stand
up to Leonardo's?  Probably not.  There might not be anything from
the 20th Century that can.  But what was good about Modernism,
Calder had, and had in a way that he made seem effortless.What was good about Modernism was its freshness.  Art became stuffy
in the nineteenth century.  The paintings that were popular at the
time were mostly the art equivalent of McMansions—big,
pretentious, and fake.  Modernism meant starting over, making things
with the same earnest motives that children might.  The artists who
benefited most from this were the ones who had preserved a child's
confidence, like Klee and Calder.Klee was impressive because he could work in so many different
styles.  But between the two I like Calder better, because his work
seemed happier.  Ultimately the point of art is to engage the viewer.
It's hard to predict what will; often something that seems interesting
at first will bore you after a month.  Calder's 
sculptures never
get boring.  They just sit there quietly radiating optimism, like
a battery that never runs out.  As far as I can tell from books and
photographs, the happiness of Calder's work is his own happiness
showing through.Jane AustenEveryone admires Jane Austen.  Add my name to the list.  To me she
seems the best novelist of all time.I'm interested in how things work.  When I read most novels, I pay
as much attention to the author's choices as to the story.  But in
her novels I can't see the gears at work.  Though I'd really like
to know how she does what she does, I can't figure it out, because
she's so good that her stories don't seem made up.  I feel like I'm
reading a description of something that actually happened.I used to read a lot of novels when I was younger.  I can't read
most anymore, because they don't have enough information in them.
Novels seem so impoverished compared to history and biography.  But 
reading Austen is like reading
nonfiction.  She writes so well you don't even notice her.John McCarthyJohn McCarthy invented Lisp, the field of (or at least the term)
artificial intelligence, and was an early member of both of the top
two computer science departments, MIT and Stanford.  No one would
dispute that he's one of the greats, but he's an especial hero to
me because of 
Lisp.It's hard for us now to understand what a conceptual leap that was
at the time.  Paradoxically, one of the reasons his achievement is
hard to appreciate is that it was so successful.  Practically every
programming language invented in the last 20 years includes ideas
from Lisp, and each year the median language gets more Lisplike.In 1958 these ideas were anything but obvious.  In 1958 there seem
to have been two ways of thinking about programming.  Some people
thought of it as math, and proved things about Turing Machines.
Others thought of it as a way to get things done, and designed
languages all too influenced by the technology of the day.  McCarthy
alone bridged the gap.  He designed a language that was math.  But
designed is not really the word; discovered is more like it.The SpitfireAs I was making this list I found myself thinking of people like
Douglas Bader 
and 
R.J. Mitchell
 and 
Jeffrey Quill and I realized
that though all of them had done many things in their lives, there
was one factor above all that connected them: the Spitfire.This is supposed to be a list of heroes.  How can a machine be on
it?  Because that machine was not just a machine.  It was a lens
of heroes.  Extraordinary devotion went into it, and extraordinary
courage came out.It's a cliche to call World War II a contest between good and evil,
but between fighter designs, it really was.  The Spitfire's original
nemesis, the ME 109, was a brutally practical plane.  It was a
killing machine.  The Spitfire was optimism embodied.  And not just
in its beautiful lines: it was at the edge of what could be
manufactured.  But taking the high road worked.  In the air, beauty
had the edge, just.Steve JobsPeople alive when Kennedy was killed  usually remember exactly where
they were when they heard about it.  I remember exactly where I was
when a friend asked if I'd heard Steve Jobs had cancer.  It was
like the floor dropped out.   A few seconds later she told me that
it was a rare operable type, and that he'd be ok.  But those seconds
seemed long.I wasn't sure whether to include Jobs on this list.  A lot of people
at Apple seem to be afraid of him, which is a bad sign.  But he
compels admiration.There's no name for what Steve Jobs is, because there hasn't been
anyone quite like him before.  He doesn't design Apple's products
himself.  Historically the closest analogy to what he does are the
great Renaissance patrons of the arts.  As the CEO of a company,
that makes him unique.Most CEOs delegate 
taste to a subordinate.
The 
design paradox
 means they're choosing more or less at random.  But Steve
Jobs actually has taste himself — such good taste that he's shown
the world how much more important taste is than they realized.Isaac NewtonNewton has a strange role in my pantheon of heroes: he's the one I
reproach myself with.  He worked on big things, at least for part
of his life.  It's so easy to get distracted working on small stuff.
The questions you're answering are pleasantly familiar.  You get
immediate rewards — in fact, you get bigger rewards in your
time if you work on matters of passing importance.  But I'm
uncomfortably aware that this is the route to well-deserved obscurity.To do really great things, you have to seek out questions people
didn't even realize were questions.  There have probably been other
people who did this as well as Newton, for their time, but Newton
is my model of this kind of thought.  I can just begin to understand
what it must have felt like for him.You only get one life.  Why not do something huge?  The phrase "paradigm
shift" is overused now, but Kuhn was onto something.  And you know
more are out there, separated from us by what will later seem a
surprisingly thin wall of laziness and stupidity.  If we work like
Newton.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston, and Jackie McDonough for reading drafts of this.Japanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

March 2008The web is turning writing into a conversation.  Twenty years ago,
writers wrote and readers read.  The web lets readers respond, and
increasingly they do—in comment threads, on forums, and in their
own blog posts.Many who respond to something disagree with it.  That's to be
expected.  Agreeing tends to motivate people less than disagreeing.
And when you agree there's less to say.  You could expand on something
the author said, but he has probably already explored the
most interesting implications.  When you disagree you're entering
territory he may not have explored.The result is there's a lot more disagreeing going on, especially
measured by the word.  That doesn't mean people are getting angrier.
The structural change in the way we communicate is enough to account
for it.  But though it's not anger that's driving the increase in
disagreement, there's a danger that the increase in disagreement
will make people angrier.  Particularly online, where it's easy to
say things you'd never say face to face.If we're all going to be disagreeing more, we should be careful to
do it well.  What does it mean to disagree well?   Most readers can
tell the difference between mere name-calling and a carefully
reasoned refutation, but I think it would help to put names on the
intermediate stages.  So here's an attempt at a disagreement
hierarchy:DH0. Name-calling.This is the lowest form of disagreement, and probably also the most
common.  We've all seen comments like this:

  u r a fag!!!!!!!!!!

But it's important to realize that more articulate name-calling has
just as little weight.  A comment like

  The author is a self-important dilettante.

is really nothing more than a pretentious version of "u r a fag."DH1. Ad Hominem.An ad hominem attack is not quite as weak as mere name-calling.  It
might actually carry some weight.  For example, if a senator wrote
an article saying senators' salaries should be increased, one could
respond:

  Of course he would say that.  He's a senator.

This wouldn't refute the author's argument, but it may at least be
relevant to the case.  It's still a very weak form of disagreement,
though.  If there's something wrong with the senator's argument,
you should say what it is; and if there isn't, what difference does
it make that he's a senator?Saying that an author lacks the authority to write about a topic
is a variant of ad hominem—and a particularly useless sort, because
good ideas often come from outsiders.  The question is whether the
author is correct or not.  If his lack of authority caused him to
make mistakes, point those out.  And if it didn't, it's not a
problem.DH2. Responding to Tone.The next level up we start to see responses to the writing, rather
than the writer.  The lowest form of these is to disagree with the
author's tone.  E.g.

  I can't believe the author dismisses intelligent design in such
  a cavalier fashion.

Though better than attacking the author, this is still a weak form
of disagreement.  It matters much more whether the author is wrong
or right than what his tone is.  Especially since tone is so hard
to judge.  Someone who has a chip on their shoulder about some topic
might be offended by a tone that to other readers seemed neutral.So if the worst thing you can say about something is to criticize
its tone, you're not saying much.  Is the author flippant, but
correct?  Better that than grave and wrong.  And if the author is
incorrect somewhere, say where.DH3. Contradiction.In this stage we finally get responses to what was said, rather
than how or by whom.  The lowest form of response to an argument
is simply to state the opposing case, with little or no supporting
evidence.This is often combined with DH2 statements, as in:

  I can't believe the author dismisses intelligent design in such
  a cavalier fashion.  Intelligent design is a legitimate scientific
  theory.

Contradiction can sometimes have some weight.  Sometimes merely
seeing the opposing case stated explicitly is enough to see that
it's right.  But usually evidence will help.DH4. Counterargument.At level 4 we reach the first form of convincing disagreement:
counterargument.  Forms up to this point can usually be ignored as
proving nothing.  Counterargument might prove something.  The problem
is, it's hard to say exactly what.Counterargument is contradiction plus reasoning and/or evidence.
When aimed squarely at the original argument, it can be convincing.
But unfortunately it's common for counterarguments to be aimed at
something slightly different.  More often than not, two people
arguing passionately about something are actually arguing about two
different things.  Sometimes they even agree with one another, but
are so caught up in their squabble they don't realize it.There could be a legitimate reason for arguing against something
slightly different from what the original author said: when you
feel they missed the heart of the matter.  But when you do that,
you should say explicitly you're doing it.DH5. Refutation.The most convincing form of disagreement is refutation.  It's also
the rarest, because it's the most work.  Indeed, the disagreement
hierarchy forms a kind of pyramid, in the sense that the higher you
go the fewer instances you find.To refute someone you probably have to quote them.  You have to
find a "smoking gun," a passage in whatever you disagree with that
you feel is mistaken, and then explain why it's mistaken.  If you
can't find an actual quote to disagree with, you may be arguing
with a straw man.While refutation generally entails quoting, quoting doesn't necessarily
imply refutation.  Some writers quote parts of things they disagree
with to give the appearance of legitimate refutation, then follow
with a response as low as DH3 or even DH0.DH6. Refuting the Central Point.The force of a refutation depends on what you refute.  The most
powerful form of disagreement is to refute someone's central point.Even as high as DH5 we still sometimes see deliberate dishonesty,
as when someone picks out minor points of an argument and refutes
those.  Sometimes the spirit in which this is done makes it more
of a sophisticated form of ad hominem than actual refutation.  For
example, correcting someone's grammar, or harping on minor mistakes
in names or numbers.  Unless the opposing argument actually depends
on such things, the only purpose of correcting them is to
discredit one's opponent.Truly refuting something requires one to refute its central point,
or at least one of them.  And that means one has to commit explicitly
to what the central point is.  So a truly effective refutation would
look like:

  The author's main point seems to be x.  As he says:

    <quotation>

  But this is wrong for the following reasons...

The quotation you point out as mistaken need not be the actual
statement of the author's main point.  It's enough to refute something
it depends upon.What It MeansNow we have a way of classifying forms of disagreement.  What good
is it?  One thing the disagreement hierarchy doesn't give us is
a way of picking a winner.  DH levels merely describe the form of
a statement, not whether it's correct.  A DH6 response could still
be completely mistaken.But while DH levels don't set a lower bound on the convincingness
of a reply, they do set an upper bound.  A DH6 response might be
unconvincing, but a DH2 or lower response is always unconvincing.The most obvious advantage of classifying the forms of disagreement
is that it will help people to evaluate what they read.  In particular,
it will help them to see through intellectually dishonest arguments.
An eloquent speaker or writer can give the impression of vanquishing
an opponent merely by using forceful words.  In fact that is probably
the defining quality of a demagogue.  By giving names to the different
forms of disagreement, we give critical readers a pin for popping
such balloons.Such labels may help writers too.  Most intellectual dishonesty is
unintentional.  Someone arguing against the tone of something he
disagrees with may believe he's really saying something.  Zooming
out and seeing his current position on the disagreement hierarchy
may inspire him to try moving up to counterargument or refutation.But the greatest benefit of disagreeing well is not just that it
will make conversations better, but that it will make the people
who have them happier.  If you study conversations, you find there
is a lot more meanness down in DH1 than up in DH6.  You don't have
to be mean when you have a real point to make.  In fact, you don't
want to.  If you have something real to say, being mean just gets
in the way.If moving up the disagreement hierarchy makes people less mean,
that will make most of them happier.  Most people don't really enjoy
being mean; they do it because they can't help it.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell and Jessica Livingston for reading
drafts of this.Related:What You Can't SayThe Age of the EssayItalian TranslationRussian TranslationSwedish TranslationSpanish TranslationGerman TranslationFrench TranslationArabic TranslationFinnish TranslationItalian TranslationTurkish Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


March 2008, rev. June 2008Technology tends to separate normal from natural.  Our bodies
weren't designed to eat the foods that people in rich countries eat, or
to get so little exercise.  
There may be a similar problem with the way we work: 
a normal job may be as bad for us intellectually as white flour
or sugar is for us physically.I began to suspect this after spending several years working 
with startup founders.  I've now worked with over 200 of them, and I've
noticed a definite difference between programmers working on their
own startups and those working for large organizations.
I wouldn't say founders seem happier, necessarily;
starting a startup can be very stressful. Maybe the best way to put
it is to say that they're happier in the sense that your body is
happier during a long run than sitting on a sofa eating
doughnuts.Though they're statistically abnormal, startup founders seem to be
working in a way that's more natural for humans.I was in Africa last year and saw a lot of animals in the wild that
I'd only seen in zoos before. It was remarkable how different they
seemed. Particularly lions. Lions in the wild seem about ten times
more alive. They're like different animals. I suspect that working
for oneself feels better to humans in much the same way that living
in the wild must feel better to a wide-ranging predator like a lion.
Life in a zoo is easier, but it isn't the life they were designed
for.TreesWhat's so unnatural about working for a big company?  The root of
the problem is that humans weren't meant to work in such large
groups.Another thing you notice when you see animals in the wild is that
each species thrives in groups of a certain size.  A herd of impalas
might have 100 adults; baboons maybe 20; lions rarely 10.  Humans
also seem designed to work in groups, and what I've read about
hunter-gatherers accords with research on organizations and my own
experience to suggest roughly what the ideal size is: groups of 8
work well; by 20 they're getting hard to manage; and a group of 50
is really unwieldy.
[1]
Whatever the upper limit is, we are clearly not meant to work in
groups of several hundred.  And yet—for reasons having more
to do with technology than human nature—a great many people
work for companies with hundreds or thousands of employees.Companies know groups that large wouldn't work, so they divide
themselves into units small enough to work together.  But to
coordinate these they have to introduce something new: bosses.These smaller groups are always arranged in a tree structure.  Your
boss is the point where your group attaches to the tree.  But when
you use this trick for dividing a large group into smaller ones,
something strange happens that I've never heard anyone mention
explicitly.  In the group one level up from yours, your boss
represents your entire group.  A group of 10 managers is not merely
a group of 10 people working together in the usual way.  It's really
a group of groups.  Which means for a group of 10 managers to work
together as if they were simply a group of 10 individuals, the group
working for each manager would have to work as if they were a single
person—the workers and manager would each share only one
person's worth of freedom between them.In practice a group of people are never able to act as if they were
one person.  But in a large organization divided into groups in
this way, the pressure is always in that direction.  Each group
tries its best to work as if it were the small group of individuals
that humans were designed to work in.  That was the point of creating
it.  And when you propagate that constraint, the result is that
each person gets freedom of action in inverse proportion to the
size of the entire tree.
[2]Anyone who's worked for a large organization has felt this.  You
can feel the difference between working for a company with 100
employees and one with 10,000, even if your group has only 10 people.Corn SyrupA group of 10 people within a large organization is a kind of fake
tribe.  The number of people you interact with is about right.  But
something is missing: individual initiative.  Tribes of hunter-gatherers
have much more freedom.  The leaders have a little more power than other
members of the tribe, but they don't generally tell them what to
do and when the way a boss can.It's not your boss's fault.  The real problem is that in the group
above you in the hierarchy, your entire group is one virtual person.
Your boss is just the way that constraint is imparted to you.So working in a group of 10 people within a large organization feels
both right and wrong at the same time.   On the surface it feels
like the kind of group you're meant to work in, but something major
is missing.  A job at a big company is like high fructose corn
syrup: it has some of the qualities of things you're meant to like,
but is disastrously lacking in others.Indeed, food is an excellent metaphor to explain what's wrong with
the usual sort of job.For example, working for a big company is the default thing to do,
at least for programmers.  How bad could it be?  Well, food shows
that pretty clearly.  If you were dropped at a random point in
America today, nearly all the food around you would be bad for you.
Humans were not designed to eat white flour, refined sugar, high
fructose corn syrup, and hydrogenated vegetable oil.  And yet if
you analyzed the contents of the average grocery store you'd probably
find these four ingredients accounted for most of the calories.
"Normal" food is terribly bad for you.  The only people who eat
what humans were actually designed to eat are a few Birkenstock-wearing
weirdos in Berkeley.If "normal" food is so bad for us, why is it so common?  There are
two main reasons. One is that it has more immediate appeal.  You
may feel lousy an hour after eating that pizza, but eating the first
couple bites feels great.  The other is economies of scale.
Producing junk food scales; producing fresh vegetables doesn't.
Which means (a) junk food can be very cheap, and (b) it's worth
spending a lot to market it.If people have to choose between something that's cheap, heavily
marketed, and appealing in the short term, and something that's
expensive, obscure, and appealing in the long term, which do you
think most will choose?It's the same with work.  The average MIT graduate wants to work
at Google or Microsoft, because it's a recognized brand, it's safe,
and they'll get paid a good salary right away.  It's the job
equivalent of the pizza they had for lunch.  The drawbacks will
only become apparent later, and then only in a vague sense of
malaise.And founders and early employees of startups, meanwhile, are like
the Birkenstock-wearing weirdos of Berkeley:  though a tiny minority
of the population, they're the ones living as humans are meant to.
In an artificial world, only extremists live naturally.ProgrammersThe restrictiveness of big company jobs is particularly hard on
programmers, because the essence of programming is to build new
things.  Sales people make much the same pitches every day; support
people answer much the same questions; but once you've written a
piece of code you don't need to write it again.  So a programmer
working as programmers are meant to is always making new things.
And when you're part of an organization whose structure gives each
person freedom in inverse proportion to the size of the tree, you're
going to face resistance when you do something new.This seems an inevitable consequence of bigness.  It's true even
in the smartest companies.  I was talking recently to a founder who
considered starting a startup right out of college, but went to
work for Google instead because he thought he'd learn more there.
He didn't learn as much as he expected.  Programmers learn by doing,
and most of the things he wanted to do, he couldn't—sometimes
because the company wouldn't let him, but often because the company's
code wouldn't let him.  Between the drag of legacy code, the overhead
of doing development in such a large organization, and the restrictions
imposed by interfaces owned by other groups, he could only try a
fraction of the things he would have liked to.  He said he has
learned much more in his own startup, despite the fact that he has
to do all the company's errands as well as programming, because at
least when he's programming he can do whatever he wants.An obstacle downstream propagates upstream.  If you're not allowed
to implement new ideas, you stop having them.  And vice versa: when
you can do whatever you want, you have more ideas about what to do.
So working for yourself makes your brain more powerful in the same
way a low-restriction exhaust system makes an engine more powerful.Working for yourself doesn't have to mean starting a startup, of
course.  But a programmer deciding between a regular job at a big
company and their own startup is probably going to learn more doing
the startup.You can adjust the amount of freedom you get by scaling the size
of company you work for.  If you start the company, you'll have the
most freedom.  If you become one of the first 10 employees you'll
have almost as much freedom as the founders.  Even a company with
100 people will feel different from one with 1000.Working for a small company doesn't ensure freedom.  The tree
structure of large organizations sets an upper bound on freedom,
not a lower bound.  The head of a small company may still choose
to be a tyrant.  The point is that a large organization is compelled
by its structure to be one.ConsequencesThat has real consequences for both organizations and individuals.
One is that companies will inevitably slow down as they grow larger,
no matter how hard they try to keep their startup mojo.  It's a
consequence of the tree structure that every large organization is
forced to adopt.Or rather, a large organization could only avoid slowing down if
they avoided tree structure.  And since human nature limits the
size of group that can work together, the only way I can imagine
for larger groups to avoid tree structure would be to have no
structure: to have each group actually be independent, and to work
together the way components of a market economy do.That might be worth exploring.  I suspect there are already some
highly partitionable businesses that lean this way.  But I don't
know any technology companies that have done it.There is one thing companies can do short of structuring themselves
as sponges:  they can stay small.  If I'm right, then it really
pays to keep a company as small as it can be at every stage.
Particularly a technology company.  Which means it's doubly important
to hire the best people.  Mediocre hires hurt you twice: they get
less done, but they also make you big, because you need more of
them to solve a given problem.For individuals the upshot is the same: aim small.  It will always
suck to work for large organizations, and the larger the organization,
the more it will suck.In an essay I wrote a couple years ago 
I advised graduating seniors
to work for a couple years for another company before starting their
own.  I'd modify that now.  Work for another company if you want
to, but only for a small one, and if you want to start your own
startup, go ahead.The reason I suggested college graduates not start startups immediately
was that I felt most would fail.  And they will.  But ambitious
programmers are better off doing their own thing and failing than
going to work at a big company.  Certainly they'll learn more.  They
might even be better off financially.  A lot of people in their
early twenties get into debt, because their expenses grow even
faster than the salary that seemed so high when they left school.
At least if you start a startup and fail your net worth will be
zero rather than negative.  
[3]We've now funded so many different types of founders that we have
enough data to see patterns, and there seems to be no benefit from
working for a big company.  The people who've worked for a few years
do seem better than the ones straight out of college, but only
because they're that much older.The people who come to us from big companies often seem kind of
conservative.  It's hard to say how much is because big companies
made them that way, and how much is the natural conservatism that
made them work for the big companies in the first place.  But
certainly a large part of it is learned.  I know because I've seen
it burn off.Having seen that happen so many times is one of the things that
convinces me that working for oneself, or at least for a small
group, is the natural way for programmers to live.  Founders arriving
at Y Combinator often have the downtrodden air of refugees.  Three
months later they're transformed: they have so much more 
confidence
that they seem as if they've grown several inches taller. 
[4]
Strange as this sounds, they seem both more worried and happier at the same
time.  Which is exactly how I'd describe the way lions seem in the
wild.Watching employees get transformed into founders makes it clear
that the difference between the two is due mostly to environment—and
in particular that the environment in big companies is toxic to
programmers.   In the first couple weeks of working on their own
startup they seem to come to life, because finally they're working
the way people are meant to.Notes[1]
When I talk about humans being meant or designed to live a
certain way, I mean by evolution.[2]
It's not only the leaves who suffer.  The constraint propagates
up as well as down.  So managers are constrained too; instead of
just doing things, they have to act through subordinates.[3]
Do not finance your startup with credit cards.  Financing a
startup with debt is usually a stupid move, and credit card debt
stupidest of all.  Credit card debt is a bad idea, period.  It is
a trap set by evil companies for the desperate and the foolish.[4]
The founders we fund used to be younger (initially we encouraged
undergrads to apply), and the first couple times I saw this I used
to wonder if they were actually getting physically taller.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Ross Boucher, Aaron Iba, Abby
Kirigin, Ivan Kirigin, Jessica Livingston, and Robert Morris for
reading drafts of this.French TranslationRussian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

March 2008, rev May 2013(This essay grew out of something I wrote for myself to figure
out what we do.  Even though Y Combinator is now 3 years old, we're still
trying to understand its implications.)
I was annoyed recently to read a description of Y Combinator that
said "Y Combinator does seed funding for startups."  What was
especially annoying about it was that I wrote it.  This doesn't
really convey what we do.  And the reason it's inaccurate is that,
paradoxically, funding very early stage startups is not mainly about
funding.Saying YC does seed funding for startups is a description in terms
of earlier models.  It's like calling a car a horseless carriage.When you scale animals you can't just keep everything in proportion.
For example, volume grows as the cube of linear dimension, but
surface area only as the square.  So as animals get bigger they
have trouble radiating heat.  That's why mice and rabbits are furry
and elephants and hippos aren't.  You can't make a mouse by scaling
down an elephant.YC represents a new, smaller kind of animal—so much smaller
that all the rules are different.Before us, most companies in the startup funding business were
venture capital funds.  VCs generally fund later stage companies
than we do.  And they supply so much money that, even though the
other things they do may be very valuable, it's not that inaccurate
to regard VCs as sources of money.  Good VCs are "smart money," but
they're still money.All good investors supply a combination of money and help.  But
these scale differently, just as volume and surface area do.  Late
stage investors supply huge amounts of money and
comparatively little help: when a company about to go public gets
a mezzanine round of $50 million, the deal tends to be almost
entirely about money.  As you move earlier in the venture
funding process, the ratio of help to money increases, because
earlier stage companies have different needs.  Early stage companies
need less money because they're smaller and cheaper to run, but
they need more help because life is so precarious for them.  So
when VCs do a series A round for, say, $2 million, they generally
expect to offer a significant amount of help along with the money.Y Combinator occupies the earliest end of the spectrum.  We're at
least one and generally two steps before VC funding.  (Though some
startups go straight from YC to VC, the most common trajectory is
to do an angel round first.)  And what happens at Y Combinator is
as different from what happens in a series A round as a series A
round is from a mezzanine financing.At our end, money is almost a negligible factor.  The startup usually
consists of just the founders. Their living expenses are the
company's main expense, and since most founders are under 30, their
living expenses are low.  But at this early stage companies need a
lot of help.  Practically every question is still unanswered.  Some
companies we've funded have been working on their software for a
year or more, but others haven't decided what to work on, or even
who the founders should be.When PR people and journalists recount the histories of startups
after they've become big, they always underestimate how uncertain
things were at first.  They're not being deliberately misleading.
When you look at a company like Google, it's hard to imagine they
could once have been small and helpless.  Sure, at one point they
were a just a couple guys in a garage—but even then their
greatness was assured, and all they had to do was roll forward along
the railroad tracks of destiny.Far from it.  A lot of startups with just as promising beginnings
end up failing.  Google has such momentum now that it would be hard
for anyone to stop them.  But all it would have taken in the beginning
would have been for two Google employees to focus on the wrong
things for six months, and the company could have died.We know, because we've been there, just how vulnerable startups are
in the earliest phases.  Curiously enough, that's why founders tend
to get so rich from them.  Reward is always proportionate to risk,
and very early stage startups are insanely risky.What we really do at Y Combinator is get startups launched straight.
One of many metaphors you could use for YC is a steam catapult on
an aircraft carrier.  We get startups airborne.  Barely airborne,
but enough that they can accelerate fast.When you're launching planes they have to be set up properly or
you're just launching projectiles.  They have to be pointed straight
down the deck; the wings have to be trimmed properly; the engines
have to be at full power; the pilot has to be ready.  These are the
kind of problems we deal with.  After we fund startups we work
closely with them for three months—so closely in fact that
we insist they move to where we are.  And what we do in those three
months is make sure everything is set up for launch.  If there are
tensions between cofounders we help sort them out.  We get all the
paperwork set up properly so there are no nasty surprises later.
If the founders aren't sure what to focus on first, we try to figure
that out.  If there is some obstacle right in front of them, we
either try to remove it, or shift the startup sideways.  The goal
is to get every distraction out of the way so the founders can use
that time to build (or finish building) something impressive.  And
then near the end of the three months we push the button on the
steam catapult in the form of Demo Day, where the current group of
startups present to pretty much every investor in Silicon Valley.Launching companies isn't identical with launching products.  Though
we do spend a lot of time on launch strategies for products, there
are some things that take too long to build for a startup to launch
them before raising their next round of funding.  Several of the
most promising startups we've funded haven't launched their products
yet, but are definitely launched as companies.In the earliest stage, startups not only have more questions to
answer, but they tend to be different kinds of questions.  In later
stage startups the questions are about deals, or hiring, or
organization.  In the earliest phase they tend to be about technology
and design.  What do you make?  That's the first problem to solve.
That's why our motto is "Make something people want."  This is
always a good thing for companies to do, but it's even more important
early on, because it sets the bounds for every other question.  Who
you hire, how much money you raise, how you market yourself—they
all depend on what you're making.Because the early problems are so much about technology and design,
you probably need to be hackers to do what we do.  While some VCs
have technical backgrounds, I don't know any who still write code.
Their expertise is mostly in business—as it should be, because
that's the kind of expertise you need in the phase between series
A and (if you're lucky) IPO.We're so different from VCs that we're really a different kind of
animal.  Can we claim founders are better off as a result of this
new type of venture firm?  I'm pretty sure the answer is yes, because
YC is an improved version of what happened to our startup, and our
case was not atypical.  We started Viaweb with $10,000 in seed money
from our friend Julian.  He was a lawyer and arranged all our
paperwork, so we could just code.  We spent three months building
a version 1, which we then presented to investors to raise more
money.  Sounds familiar, doesn't it?  But YC improves on that
significantly.  Julian knew a lot about law and business, but his
advice ended there; he was not a startup guy.  So we made some basic
mistakes early on.  And when we presented to investors, we presented
to only 2, because that was all we knew.  If we'd had our later
selves to encourage and advise us, and Demo Day to present at, we
would have been in much better shape.  We probably could have raised
money at 3 to 5 times the valuation we did.If we take 7% of a company we fund, the founders only have to do
7.5% better in their next round of funding
to end up net ahead.  We certainly manage that.So who is our 7% coming out of?  If the founders end up net ahead
it's not coming out of them.  So is it coming out of later stage
investors?  Well, they do end up paying more.  But I think they pay
more because the company is actually more valuable.  And later stage
investors have no problem with that.  The returns of a VC fund
depend on the quality of the companies they invest in, not how
cheaply they can buy stock in them.If what we do is useful, why wasn't anyone doing it before?  There
are two answers to that.  One is that people were doing it before,
just haphazardly on a smaller scale.  Before us, seed funding came
primarily from individual angel investors.  Larry and Sergey, for
example, got their seed funding from Andy Bechtolsheim, one of the
founders of Sun.  And because he was a startup guy he probably gave
them useful advice.  But raising money from angel investors is a
hit or miss thing.  It's a sideline for most of them, so they only
do a handful of deals a year and they don't spend a lot of time on
the startups they invest in.  And they're hard to reach, because
they don't want random startups pestering them with business plans.
The Google guys were lucky because they knew someone who knew
Bechtolsheim.  It generally takes a personal introduction with
angels.The other reason no one was doing quite what we do is that till
recently it was a lot more expensive to start a startup.  You'll
notice we haven't funded any biotech startups.  That's still
expensive.  But advancing technology has made web startups so cheap
that you really can get a company airborne for $15,000.  If you
understand how to operate a steam catapult, at least.So in effect what's happened is that a new ecological niche has
opened up, and Y Combinator is the new kind of animal that has moved
into it.  We're not a replacement for venture capital funds.  We
occupy a new, adjacent niche.  And conditions in our niche are
really quite different.  It's not just that the problems we face
are different; the whole structure of the business is different.
VCs are playing a zero-sum game.  They're all competing for a slice
of a fixed amount of "deal flow," and that explains a lot of their
behavior.  Whereas our m.o. is to create new deal flow, by encouraging
hackers who would have gotten jobs to start their own startups
instead.  We compete more with employers than VCs.It's not surprising something like this would happen.  Most fields
become more specialized—more articulated—as they develop,
and startups are certainly an area in which there has been a lot
of development over the past couple decades.  The venture business
in its present form is only about forty years old.  It stands to
reason it would evolve.And it's natural that the new niche would at first be described,
even by its inhabitants, in terms of the old one.  But really Y
Combinator is not in the startup funding business.  Really we're
more of a small, furry steam catapult.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston, and Robert Morris
for reading drafts of this.Comment on this essay.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

February 2008The fiery reaction to the release of Arc had
an unexpected consequence: it made me realize I had a design
philosophy.  The main complaint of the more articulate critics was
that Arc seemed so flimsy. After years of working on it, all I had
to show for myself were a few thousand lines of macros?  Why hadn't
I worked on more substantial problems?As I was mulling over these remarks it struck me how familiar they
seemed.  This was exactly the kind of thing people said at first
about Viaweb, and Y Combinator, and most of my essays.When we launched Viaweb, it seemed laughable to VCs and e-commerce
"experts."  We were just a couple guys in an apartment,
which did not seem cool in 1995 the way it does now.  And the thing
we'd built, as far as they could tell, wasn't even software.
Software, to them, equalled big, honking Windows apps.  Since Viaweb
was the first web-based app 
they'd seen, it seemed to be nothing
more than a website.  They were even more contemptuous when they
discovered that Viaweb didn't process credit card transactions (we
didn't for the whole first year).  Transaction processing seemed
to them what e-commerce was all about.  It sounded serious and
difficult.And yet, mysteriously, Viaweb ended up crushing all its competitors.The initial reaction to 
Y Combinator was almost identical.  It
seemed laughably lightweight.  Startup funding meant series A rounds:
millions of dollars given to a small number of startups founded by
people with established credentials after months of serious,
businesslike meetings, on terms described in a document a foot
thick.  Y Combinator seemed inconsequential.  It's too early to say
yet whether Y Combinator will turn out like Viaweb, but judging
from the number of imitations, a lot of people seem to think we're
on to something.I can't measure whether my essays are successful, except in page
views, but the reaction to them is at least different from when I
started.  At first the default reaction of the Slashdot trolls was
(translated into articulate terms): "Who is this guy and what
authority does he have to write about these topics?  I haven't read
the essay, but there's no way anything so short and written in such
an informal style could have anything useful to say about such and
such topic, when people with degrees in the subject have already
written many thick books about it." Now there's a new generation
of trolls on a new generation of sites, but they have at least
started to omit the initial "Who is this guy?"Now people are saying the same things about Arc that they said at
first about Viaweb and Y Combinator and most of my essays.  Why the
pattern?  The answer, I realized, is that my m.o. for all four has
been the same.Here it is: I like to find (a) simple solutions (b) to overlooked
problems (c) that actually need to be solved, and (d) deliver them
as informally as possible, (e) starting with a very crude version
1, then (f) iterating rapidly.When I first laid out these principles explicitly, I noticed something
striking: this is practically a recipe for generating a contemptuous
initial reaction.  Though simple solutions are better, they don't
seem as impressive as complex ones.  Overlooked problems are by
definition problems that most people think don't matter.  Delivering
solutions in an informal way means that instead of judging something
by the way it's presented, people have to actually understand it,
which is more work.  And starting with a crude version 1 means your
initial effort is always small and incomplete.I'd noticed, of course, that people never seemed to grasp new ideas
at first.  I thought it was just because most people were stupid.
Now I see there's more to it than that.   Like a
contrarian investment fund, someone following this strategy will
almost always be doing things that seem wrong to the average person.As with contrarian investment strategies, that's exactly the point.
This technique is successful (in the long term) because it gives you
all the advantages other people forgo by trying to seem legit.  If
you work on overlooked problems, you're more likely to discover new
things, because you have less competition.  If you deliver solutions
informally, you (a) save all the effort you would have had to expend
to make them look impressive, and (b) avoid the danger of fooling
yourself as well as your audience.  And if you release a crude
version 1 then iterate, your solution can benefit from the imagination
of nature, which, as Feynman pointed out, is more powerful than
your own.In the case of Viaweb, the simple solution was to make the software
run on the server.  The overlooked problem was to generate web sites
automatically; in 1995, online stores were all made by hand by human
designers, but we knew this wouldn't scale.  The part that actually
mattered was graphic design, not transaction processing.
The informal delivery mechanism was me, showing up in jeans and a
t-shirt at some retailer's office.  And the crude version 1 was,
if I remember correctly, less than 10,000 lines of code when we
launched.The power of this technique extends beyond startups and programming
languages and essays.  It probably extends to any kind of creative
work.  Certainly it can be used in painting: this is exactly 
what Cezanne and Klee did.At Y Combinator we bet money on it, in the sense that we encourage
the startups we fund to work this way. There are always new ideas
right under your nose.  So look for simple things that other people
have overlooked—things people will later claim were 
"obvious"—especially when they've been led astray by obsolete 
conventions,
or by trying to do things that are superficially impressive.  Figure
out what the real problem is, and make sure you solve that.  Don't
worry about trying to look corporate; the product is what wins in
the long term.  And launch as soon as you can, so you start learning
from users what you should have been making.Reddit is a classic example of 
this approach.  When Reddit first
launched, it seemed like there was nothing to it.  To the graphically
unsophisticated its deliberately minimal design seemed like no
design at all.  But Reddit solved the real problem, which was to
tell people what was new and otherwise stay out of the way.  As a
result it became massively successful.  Now that conventional ideas
have caught up with it, it seems obvious.  People look at Reddit
and think the founders were lucky.  Like all such things, it was
harder than it looked.  The Reddits pushed so hard against the
current that they reversed it; now it looks like they're merely
floating downstream.So when you look at something like Reddit and think "I wish I could
think of an idea like that," remember: ideas like that are all
around you.  But you ignore them because they look wrong.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

October 2007After the last 
talk I gave, one of the organizers 
got up on the
stage to deliver an impromptu rebuttal.  That never happened before.
I only heard the first few sentences, but that was enough to tell
what I said that upset him: that startups would do better if they
moved to Silicon Valley.This conference was in London, and most of the audience seemed to
be from the UK.  So saying startups should move to Silicon Valley
seemed like a nationalistic remark: an obnoxious American telling
them that if they wanted to do things right they should all just
move to America.Actually I'm less American than I seem.  I didn't say so, but I'm
British by birth.  And just as Jews are ex officio allowed to tell
Jewish jokes, I don't feel like I have to bother being diplomatic
with a British audience.The idea that startups would do better to move to Silicon Valley
is not even a nationalistic one.
[1]
It's the same thing I say to
startups in the US.  Y Combinator alternates between coasts every
6 months. Every other funding cycle is in Boston.  And even though
Boston is the second biggest startup hub in the US (and the world),
we tell the startups from those cycles that their best bet is to
move to Silicon Valley.  If that's true of Boston, it's even more
true of every other city.This is about cities, not countries.And I think I can prove I'm right.  You can easily reduce the
opposing argument ad what most people would agree was absurdum.
Few would be willing to claim that it doesn't matter at all where
a startup is—that a startup operating out of a small agricultural
town wouldn't benefit from moving to a startup hub.  Most people
could see how it might be helpful to be in a place where there was
infrastructure for startups, accumulated knowledge about how to
make them work, and other people trying to do it.  And yet whatever
argument you use to prove that startups don't need to move from
London to Silicon Valley could equally well be used to prove startups
don't need to move from smaller towns to London.The difference between cities is a matter of degree.  And if, as
nearly everyone who knows agrees, startups are better off in Silicon
Valley than Boston, then they're better off in Silicon Valley than
everywhere else too.I realize I might seem to have a vested interest in this conclusion,
because startups that move to the US might do it through Y Combinator.
But the American startups we've funded will attest that I say the
same thing to them.I'm not claiming of course that every startup has to go to Silicon
Valley to succeed.  Just that all other things being equal, the
more of a startup hub a place is, the better startups will do there.
But other considerations can outweigh the advantages of moving.
I'm not saying founders with families should uproot them to move
halfway around the world; that might be too much of a distraction.Immigration difficulties might be another reason to stay put.
Dealing with immigration problems is like raising money: for some
reason it seems to consume all your attention.  A startup can't
afford much of that.  One Canadian startup we funded spent about 6
months working on moving to the US.  Eventually they just gave up,
because they couldn't afford to take so much time away from working
on their software.(If another country wanted to establish a rival to Silicon Valley,
the single best thing they could do might be to create a special
visa for startup founders.  US immigration policy is one of Silicon 
Valley's biggest weaknesses.)If your startup is connected to a specific industry, you may be
better off in one of its centers.  A startup doing something related
to entertainment might want to be in New York or LA.And finally, if a good investor has committed to fund
you if you stay where you are, you should probably stay.  Finding
investors is hard.  You generally shouldn't pass up a definite
funding offer to move.
[2]In fact, the quality of the investors may be the main advantage of
startup hubs.  Silicon Valley investors are noticeably more aggressive
than Boston ones.  Over and over, I've seen startups we've funded
snatched by west coast investors out from under the noses of Boston
investors who saw them first but acted too slowly.  At this year's
Boston Demo Day, I told the audience that this happened every year,
so if they saw a startup they liked, they should make them an offer.
And yet within a month it had happened again: an aggressive west
coast VC who had met the founder of a YC-funded startup a week
before beat out a Boston VC who had known him for years.  By the
time the Boston VC grasped what was happening, the deal was already
gone.Boston investors will admit they're more conservative.  Some want
to believe this comes from the city's prudent Yankee character.
But Occam's razor suggests the truth is less flattering.  Boston
investors are probably more conservative than Silicon Valley investors
for the same reason Chicago investors are more conservative than
Boston ones.  They don't understand startups as well.West coast investors aren't bolder because they're irresponsible
cowboys, or because the good weather makes them optimistic.  They're
bolder because they know what they're doing.  They're the skiers
who ski on the diamond slopes.  Boldness is the essence of venture
investing.  The way you get big returns is not by trying to avoid
losses, but by trying to ensure you get some of the big hits. And
the big hits often look risky at first.Like Facebook.  Facebook was started in Boston.  Boston VCs had the
first shot at them.  But they said no, so Facebook moved to Silicon
Valley and raised money there.  The partner who turned them down
now says that "may turn out to have been a mistake."Empirically, boldness wins.  If the aggressive ways of west coast
investors are going to come back to bite them, it has been a long
time coming.  Silicon Valley has been pulling ahead of Boston since
the 1970s.  If there was going to be a comeuppance for the west
coast investors, the bursting of the Bubble would have been it.
But since then the west coast has just pulled further ahead.West coast investors are confident enough of their judgement to act
boldly; east coast investors, not so much; but anyone who thinks
east coast investors act that way out of prudence should see the
frantic reactions of an east coast VC in the process of losing a
deal to a west coast one.In addition to the concentration that comes from specialization,
startup hubs are also markets.  And markets are usually centralized.
Even now, when traders could be anywhere, they cluster in a few
cities.  It's hard to say exactly what it is about face to face
contact that makes deals happen, but whatever it is, it hasn't yet
been duplicated by technology.Walk down University Ave at the right time, and you might overhear
five different people talking on the phone about deals.  In fact,
this is part of the reason Y Combinator is in Boston half the time:
it's hard to stand that year round.  But though it can sometimes
be annoying to be surrounded by people who only think about one
thing, it's the place to be if that one thing is what you're trying
to do.I was talking recently to someone who works on search at Google.
He knew a lot of people at Yahoo, so he was in a good position to
compare the two companies.  I asked him why Google was better at
search.  He said it wasn't anything specific Google did, but simply
that they understood search so much better.And that's why startups thrive in startup hubs like Silicon Valley.
Startups are a very specialized business, as specialized as diamond
cutting.  And in startup hubs they understand it.Notes[1]
The nationalistic idea is the converse: that startups should
stay in a certain city because of the country it's in.  If you
really have a "one world" viewpoint, deciding to move from London
to Silicon Valley is no different from deciding to move from Chicago
to Silicon Valley.[2]
An investor who merely seems like he will fund you, however,
you can ignore.  Seeming like they will fund you one day is the way
investors say No.Thanks to Sam Altman, Jessica Livingston, Harjeet Taggar, and Kulveer
Taggar for reading drafts of this.Comment on this essay.Japanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


October 2007(This essay is derived from a keynote at FOWA in October 2007.)There's something interesting happening right now.  Startups are
undergoing the same transformation that technology does when it becomes
cheaper.It's a pattern we see over and over in technology.  Initially
there's some device that's very expensive and made
in small quantities.  Then someone discovers how to make them cheaply; 
many more get built; and as a result they can be used in new ways.Computers are a familiar example.  When I was a kid, computers were
big, expensive machines built one at a time.  Now they're a commodity.
Now we can stick computers in everything.This pattern is very old.  Most of the turning
points in economic history are instances of it.  It happened to
steel in the 1850s, and to power in the 1780s.
It happened to cloth manufacture in the thirteenth century, generating
the wealth that later brought about the Renaissance.  Agriculture
itself was an instance of this pattern.Now as well as being produced by startups, this pattern
is happening to startups.  It's so cheap to start web startups
that orders of magnitudes more will be started.   If the pattern
holds true, that should cause dramatic changes.1. Lots of StartupsSo my first prediction about the future of web startups is pretty
straightforward: there will be a lot of them.  When starting a
startup was expensive, you had to get the permission of investors
to do it.  Now the only threshold is courage.Even that threshold is getting lower, as people watch others take
the plunge and survive.  In the last batch of startups we funded,
we had several founders who said they'd thought of applying before,
but weren't sure and got jobs instead.  It was only after hearing
reports of friends who'd done it that they decided to try it
themselves.Starting a startup is hard, but having a 9 to 5 job is hard too,
and in some ways a worse kind of hard.  In a startup you have lots
of worries, but you don't have that feeling that your life is flying
by like you do in a big company.  Plus in a startup you could make
much more money.As word spreads that startups work, the number may grow
to a point that would now seem surprising.We now think of it as normal to have a job at a company, but this
is the thinnest of historical veneers.  Just two or three
lifetimes ago, most people in what are now called industrialized
countries lived by farming.  So while it may seem surprising to
propose that large numbers of people will change the way they make
a living, it would be more surprising if they didn't.2. StandardizationWhen technology makes something dramatically cheaper, standardization
always follows.  When you make things in large volumes you tend
to standardize everything that doesn't need to change.At Y Combinator we still only have four people, so we try to
standardize everything.  We could hire employees, but we want to be
forced to figure out how to scale investing.We often tell startups to release a minimal version one quickly, 
then let the needs of the users determine what to do
next.  In essence, let the market design the product.  We've
done the same thing ourselves.  We think of the techniques we're
developing for dealing with large numbers of startups as like
software.  Sometimes it literally is software, like 
Hacker News and
our application system.One of the most important things we've been working on standardizing
are investment terms.  Till now investment terms have been
individually negotiated.
This is a problem for founders, because it makes raising money
take longer and cost more in legal fees.  So as well as using the
same paperwork for every deal we do, we've commissioned generic
angel paperwork that all the startups we fund can use for future
rounds.Some investors will still want to cook up their own deal terms.
Series A rounds, where you raise a million dollars or more, will
be custom deals for the foreseeable future.  But I think angel rounds
will start to be done mostly with standardized agreements.  An angel
who wants to insert a bunch of complicated terms into the agreement
is probably not one you want anyway.3. New Attitude to AcquisitionAnother thing I see starting to get standardized is acquisitions.
As the volume of startups increases, big companies will start to
develop standardized procedures that make acquisitions little
more work than hiring someone.Google is the leader here, as in so many areas of technology.  They
buy a lot of startups —  more than most people realize, because they
only announce a fraction of them.   And being Google, they're
figuring out how to do it efficiently.One problem they've solved is how to think about acquisitions.  For
most companies, acquisitions still carry some stigma of inadequacy.
Companies do them because they have to, but there's usually some
feeling they shouldn't have to — that their own programmers should
be able to build everything they need.Google's example should cure the rest of the world of this idea.
Google has by far the best programmers of any public technology
company.  If they don't have a problem doing acquisitions, the
others should have even less problem.  However many Google does,
Microsoft should do ten times as many.One reason Google doesn't have a problem with acquisitions
is that they know first-hand the quality of the people they can get
that way.  Larry and Sergey only started Google after making the
rounds of the search engines trying to sell their idea and finding
no takers.  They've been the guys coming in to visit the big
company, so they know who might be sitting across that conference
table from them.4. Riskier Strategies are PossibleRisk is always proportionate to reward.  The way to get really big
returns is to do things that seem crazy, like starting a new search
engine in 1998, or turning down a billion dollar acquisition offer.This has traditionally been a problem in venture funding.  Founders
and investors have different attitudes to risk.  Knowing that risk
is on average proportionate to reward, investors like risky strategies,
while founders, who don't have a big enough sample size to care
what's true on average, tend to be more conservative.If startups are easy to start, this conflict goes away, because
founders can start them younger, when it's rational to take more
risk, and can start more startups total in their careers.  When
founders can do lots of startups, they can start to look at the
world in the same portfolio-optimizing way as investors.  And that
means the overall amount of wealth created can be greater, because
strategies can be riskier.5. Younger, Nerdier FoundersIf startups become a cheap commodity, more people will be able to
have them, just as more people could have computers once microprocessors
made them cheap.  And in particular, younger and more technical
founders will be able to start startups than could before.Back when it cost a lot to start a startup, you had to convince
investors to let you do it.  And that required very different skills
from actually doing the startup.  If investors were perfect judges,
the two would require exactly the same skills.  But unfortunately
most investors are terrible judges.  I know because I see behind
the scenes what an enormous amount of work it takes to raise money,
and the amount of selling required in an industry is always inversely
proportional to the judgement of the buyers.Fortunately, if startups get cheaper to start, there's another way
to convince investors.  Instead of going to venture capitalists
with a business plan and trying to convince them to fund it, you
can get a product launched on a few tens of thousands of dollars
of seed money from us or your uncle, and approach them with a
working company instead of a plan for one.  Then instead of
having to seem smooth and confident, you can just point them to
Alexa.This way of convincing investors is better suited to hackers, who
often went into technology in part because they felt uncomfortable
with the amount of fakeness required in other fields.6. Startup Hubs Will PersistIt might seem that if startups get cheap to start, it will mean the
end of startup hubs like Silicon Valley.  If all you need to start
a startup is rent money, you should be able to do it anywhere.This is kind of true and kind of false.  It's true that you can now
start a startup anywhere.  But you have to do more with a
startup than just start it.  You have to make it succeed.  And that
is more likely to happen in a startup hub.I've thought a lot about this question, and it seems to me the
increasing cheapness of web startups will if anything increase the
importance of startup hubs.  The value of startup hubs, like centers
for any kind of business, lies in something very old-fashioned:
face to face meetings.  No technology in the immediate future will
replace walking down University Ave and running into a friend who
tells you how to fix a bug that's been bothering you all weekend,
or visiting a friend's startup down the street and ending up in a
conversation with one of their investors.The question of whether to be in a startup hub is like the question
of whether to take outside investment.  The question is not whether
you need it, but whether it brings any advantage at all.
Because anything that brings an advantage will give your competitors
an advantage over you if they do it and you don't.  So if you hear
someone saying "we don't need to be in Silicon Valley," that use
of the word "need" is a sign they're not even thinking about the
question right.And while startup hubs are as powerful magnets as ever, the increasing
cheapness of starting a startup means the particles they're attracting
are getting lighter.  A startup now can be just a pair of 22 year
old guys.  A company like that can move much more easily than one
with 10 people, half of whom have kids.We know because we make people move for Y Combinator, and it doesn't
seem to be a problem. The advantage of being able to work together
face to face for three months outweighs the inconvenience of moving.
Ask anyone who's done it.The mobility of seed-stage startups means that seed funding is a
national business.  One of the most common emails we get is from
people asking if we can help them set up a local clone of Y Combinator.
But this just wouldn't work. Seed funding isn't regional, just as
big research universities aren't.Is seed funding not merely national, but international?  Interesting
question.  There are signs it may be.  We've had an ongoing
stream of founders from outside the US, and they tend to do
particularly well, because they're all people who were so determined
to succeed that they were willing to move to another country to do
it.The more mobile startups get, the harder it would be to start new 
silicon valleys.  If startups are mobile, the best local talent 
will go to the real Silicon Valley,
and all they'll get at the local one will be the people who didn't
have the energy to move.This is not a nationalistic idea, incidentally.  It's cities that
compete, not countries.  Atlanta is just as hosed as Munich.7. Better Judgement NeededIf the number of startups increases dramatically, then the people
whose job is to judge them are going to have to get better at
it.  I'm thinking particularly of investors and acquirers.  We now
get on the order of 1000 applications a year.  What are we going
to do if we get 10,000?That's actually an alarming idea.  But we'll figure out some kind
of answer.  We'll have to.  It will probably involve writing some
software, but fortunately we can do that.Acquirers will also have to get better at picking winners.   
They generally do better than investors, because they pick
later, when there's more performance to measure.  But even at the
most advanced acquirers, identifying companies to
buy is extremely ad hoc, and completing the acquisition often
involves a great deal of unnecessary friction.I think acquirers may eventually have chief acquisition officers
who will both identify good acquisitions and make the deals happen.
At the moment those two functions are separate.  Promising new
startups are often discovered by developers.  If someone powerful
enough wants to buy them, the deal is handed over to corp dev guys
to negotiate.  It would be better if both were combined in
one group, headed by someone with a technical background and some
vision of what they wanted to accomplish.  Maybe in the future big
companies will have both a VP of Engineering responsible for
technology developed in-house, and a CAO responsible for bringing
technology in from outside.At the moment, there is no one within big companies who gets in
trouble when they buy a startup for $200 million that they could
have bought earlier for $20 million.  There should start to be
someone who gets in trouble for that.8. College Will ChangeIf the best hackers start their own companies after college
instead of getting jobs, that will change what happens in college.
Most of these changes will be for the better.  I think the experience
of college is warped in a bad way by the expectation that afterward
you'll be judged by potential employers.One change will be in the meaning of "after
college," which will switch from when one graduates from college
to when one leaves it.  If you're starting your own company, why
do you need a degree?  We don't encourage people to start startups
during college, but the best founders are certainly
capable of it.  Some of the most successful companies we've funded
were started by undergrads.I grew up in a time where college degrees seemed really important,
so I'm alarmed to be saying things like this, but there's nothing
magical about a degree.  There's nothing that magically changes
after you take that last exam.  The importance of degrees is due
solely to the administrative needs of large organizations.  These
can certainly affect your life — it's hard to get into grad
school, or to get a work visa in the US, without an undergraduate
degree — but tests like this will matter less and
less.As well as mattering less whether students get degrees, it will
also start to matter less where they go to college.  In a startup
you're judged by users, and they don't care where you went to
college.  So in a world of startups, elite universities will play
less of a role as gatekeepers.  In the US it's a national scandal
how easily children of rich parents game college admissions.
But the way this problem ultimately gets solved may not be by
reforming the universities but by going around them.  We in the
technology world are used to that sort of solution: you don't beat
the incumbents; you redefine the problem to make them irrelevant.The greatest value of universities is not the brand name or perhaps
even the classes so much as the people you meet.  If
it becomes common to start a startup after college, students may start
trying to maximize this.  Instead of focusing on getting
internships at companies they want to work for, they may start
to focus on working with other students they want as cofounders.What students do in their classes will change too.  Instead of
trying to get good grades to impress future employers, students
will try to learn things.  We're talking about some pretty dramatic
changes here.9. Lots of CompetitorsIf it gets easier to start a startup, it's easier for competitors too. 
That doesn't erase the advantage of
increased cheapness, however.  You're not all playing a zero-sum
game.  There's not some fixed number of startups that can succeed,
regardless of how many are started.In fact, I don't think there's any limit to the number of startups
that could succeed.  Startups succeed by creating wealth, which is
the satisfaction of people's desires.  And people's desires seem
to be effectively infinite, at least in the short term.What the increasing number of startups does mean is that you won't
be able to sit on a good idea.  Other people have your idea, and
they'll be increasingly likely to do something about it.10. Faster AdvancesThere's a good side to that, at least for consumers of
technology.  If people get right to work implementing ideas instead
of sitting on them, technology will evolve faster.Some kinds of innovations happen a company at a time, like the
punctuated equilibrium model of evolution.  There are some kinds
of ideas that are so threatening that it's hard for big companies
even to think of them.  Look at what a hard time Microsoft is
having discovering web apps.  They're like a character in a movie
that everyone in the audience can see something bad is about to
happen to, but who can't see it himself.  The big innovations
that happen a company at a time will obviously happen faster if
the rate of new companies increases.But in fact there will be a double speed increase.  People won't
wait as long to act on new ideas, but also those ideas will
increasingly be developed within startups rather than big companies.
Which means technology will evolve faster per company as well.Big companies are just not a good place to make things happen fast.
I talked recently to a founder whose startup had been acquired by
a big company.  He was a precise sort of guy, so he'd measured their
productivity before and after.  He counted lines of code, which can
be a dubious measure, but in this case was meaningful because it
was the same group of programmers.  He found they were one thirteenth
as productive after the acquisition.The company that bought them was not a particularly stupid one.
I think what he was measuring was mostly the cost of bigness.  I
experienced this myself, and his number sounds about right.  There's
something about big companies that just sucks the energy out of
you.Imagine what all that energy could do if it were put to use.  There
is an enormous latent capacity in the world's hackers that most
people don't even realize is there.  That's the main reason we do
Y Combinator: to let loose all this energy by making it easy for
hackers to start their own startups.A Series of TubesThe process of starting startups is currently like the plumbing in
an old house.  The pipes are narrow and twisty, and there are leaks
in every joint.  In the future this mess will gradually be replaced
by a single, huge pipe.  The water will still have to get from A
to B, but it will get there faster and without the risk of spraying
out through some random leak.This will change a lot of things for the better.  In a big, straight
pipe like that, the force of being measured by one's performance
will propagate back through the whole system.  Performance is always
the ultimate test, but there are so many kinks in the plumbing now
that most people are insulated from it most of the time.  So you
end up with a world in which high school students think they need
to get good grades to get into elite colleges, and college students
think they need to get good grades to impress employers, within
which the employees waste most of their time in political battles,
and from which consumers have to buy anyway because there are so
few choices.  Imagine if that sequence became a big, straight pipe.
Then the effects of being measured by performance would propagate
all the way back to high school, flushing out all the arbitrary
stuff people are measured by now.  That is the future of web startups.Thanks to Brian Oberkirch and Simon Willison for inviting me to 
speak, and the crew at Carson Systems for making everything run smoothly.Japanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

September 2007In high school I decided I was going to study philosophy in college.
I had several motives, some more honorable than others.  One of the
less honorable was to shock people.  College was regarded as job
training where I grew up, so studying philosophy seemed an impressively
impractical thing to do.  Sort of like slashing holes in your clothes
or putting a safety pin through your ear, which were other forms
of impressive impracticality then just coming into fashion.But I had some more honest motives as well.  I thought studying
philosophy would be a shortcut straight to wisdom.  All the people
majoring in other things would just end up with a bunch of domain
knowledge.  I would be learning what was really what.I'd tried to read a few philosophy books.  Not recent ones; you
wouldn't find those in our high school library.  But I tried to
read Plato and Aristotle.  I doubt I believed I understood them,
but they sounded like they were talking about something important.
I assumed I'd learn what in college.The summer before senior year I took some college classes.  I learned
a lot in the calculus class, but I didn't learn much in Philosophy
101.  And yet my plan to study philosophy remained intact.  It was
my fault I hadn't learned anything.  I hadn't read the books we
were assigned carefully enough.  I'd give Berkeley's Principles
of Human Knowledge another shot in college.  Anything so admired
and so difficult to read must have something in it, if one could
only figure out what.Twenty-six years later, I still don't understand Berkeley.  I have
a nice edition of his collected works.  Will I ever read it?  Seems
unlikely.The difference between then and now is that now I understand why
Berkeley is probably not worth trying to understand.  I think I see
now what went wrong with philosophy, and how we might fix it.WordsI did end up being a philosophy major for most of college.  It
didn't work out as I'd hoped.  I didn't learn any magical truths
compared to which everything else was mere domain knowledge.  But
I do at least know now why I didn't.  Philosophy doesn't really
have a subject matter in the way math or history or most other
university subjects do.  There is no core of knowledge one must
master.  The closest you come to that is a knowledge of what various
individual philosophers have said about different topics over the
years.  Few were sufficiently correct that people have forgotten
who discovered what they discovered.Formal logic has some subject matter. I took several classes in
logic.  I don't know if I learned anything from them.
[1]
It does seem to me very important to be able to flip ideas around in
one's head: to see when two ideas don't fully cover the space of
possibilities, or when one idea is the same as another but with a
couple things changed.  But did studying logic teach me the importance
of thinking this way, or make me any better at it?  I don't know.There are things I know I learned from studying philosophy.  The
most dramatic I learned immediately, in the first semester of
freshman year, in a class taught by Sydney Shoemaker.  I learned
that I don't exist.  I am (and you are) a collection of cells that
lurches around driven by various forces, and calls itself I.  But
there's no central, indivisible thing that your identity goes with.
You could conceivably lose half your brain and live.  Which means
your brain could conceivably be split into two halves and each
transplanted into different bodies.  Imagine waking up after such
an operation.  You have to imagine being two people.The real lesson here is that the concepts we use in everyday life
are fuzzy, and break down if pushed too hard.  Even a concept as
dear to us as I.  It took me a while to grasp this, but when I
did it was fairly sudden, like someone in the nineteenth century
grasping evolution and realizing the story of creation they'd been
told as a child was all wrong. 
[2]
Outside of math there's a limit
to how far you can push words; in fact, it would not be a bad
definition of math to call it the study of terms that have precise
meanings.  Everyday words are inherently imprecise.  They work well
enough in everyday life that you don't notice.  Words seem to work,
just as Newtonian physics seems to.  But you can always make them
break if you push them far enough.I would say that this has been, unfortunately for philosophy, the
central fact of philosophy.  Most philosophical debates are not
merely afflicted by but driven by confusions over words.  Do we
have free will?  Depends what you mean by "free." Do abstract ideas
exist?  Depends what you mean by "exist."Wittgenstein is popularly credited with the idea that most philosophical
controversies are due to confusions over language.  I'm not sure
how much credit to give him.  I suspect a lot of people realized
this, but reacted simply by not studying philosophy, rather than
becoming philosophy professors.How did things get this way?  Can something people have spent
thousands of years studying really be a waste of time?  Those are
interesting questions.  In fact, some of the most interesting
questions you can ask about philosophy.  The most valuable way to
approach the current philosophical tradition may be neither to get
lost in pointless speculations like Berkeley, nor to shut them down
like Wittgenstein, but to study it as an example of reason gone
wrong.HistoryWestern philosophy really begins with Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle.
What we know of their predecessors comes from fragments and references
in later works; their doctrines could be described as speculative
cosmology that occasionally strays into analysis.  Presumably they
were driven by whatever makes people in every other society invent
cosmologies.
[3]With Socrates, Plato, and particularly Aristotle, this tradition
turned a corner.  There started to be a lot more analysis.  I suspect
Plato and Aristotle were encouraged in this by progress in math.
Mathematicians had by then shown that you could figure things out
in a much more conclusive way than by making up fine sounding stories
about them.  
[4]People talk so much about abstractions now that we don't realize
what a leap it must have been when they first started to.  It was
presumably many thousands of years between when people first started
describing things as hot or cold and when someone asked "what is
heat?"  No doubt it was a very gradual process.  We don't know if
Plato or Aristotle were the first to ask any of the questions they
did.  But their works are the oldest we have that do this on a large
scale, and there is a freshness (not to say naivete) about them
that suggests some of the questions they asked were new to them,
at least.Aristotle in particular reminds me of the phenomenon that happens
when people discover something new, and are so excited by it that
they race through a huge percentage of the newly discovered territory
in one lifetime.  If so, that's evidence of how new this kind of
thinking was. 
[5]This is all to explain how Plato and Aristotle can be very impressive
and yet naive and mistaken.  It was impressive even to ask the
questions they did.  That doesn't mean they always came up with
good answers.  It's not considered insulting to say that ancient
Greek mathematicians were naive in some respects, or at least lacked
some concepts that would have made their lives easier.  So I hope
people will not be too offended if I propose that ancient philosophers
were similarly naive.  In particular, they don't seem to have fully
grasped what I earlier called the central fact of philosophy: that
words break if you push them too far."Much to the surprise of the builders of the first digital computers,"
Rod Brooks wrote, "programs written for them usually did not work."
[6]
Something similar happened when people first started trying
to talk about abstractions.  Much to their surprise, they didn't
arrive at answers they agreed upon.  In fact, they rarely seemed
to arrive at answers at all.They were in effect arguing about artifacts induced by sampling at
too low a resolution.The proof of how useless some of their answers turned out to be is
how little effect they have.  No one after reading Aristotle's
Metaphysics does anything differently as a result.
[7]Surely I'm not claiming that ideas have to have practical applications
to be interesting?  No, they may not have to.  Hardy's boast that
number theory had no use whatsoever wouldn't disqualify it.  But
he turned out to be mistaken.  In fact, it's suspiciously hard to
find a field of math that truly has no practical use.  And Aristotle's
explanation of the ultimate goal of philosophy in Book A of the
Metaphysics implies that philosophy should be useful too.Theoretical KnowledgeAristotle's goal was to find the most general of general principles.
The examples he gives are convincing: an ordinary worker builds
things a certain way out of habit; a master craftsman can do more
because he grasps the underlying principles.  The trend is clear:
the more general the knowledge, the more admirable it is.  But then
he makes a mistake—possibly the most important mistake in the
history of philosophy.  He has noticed that theoretical knowledge
is often acquired for its own sake, out of curiosity, rather than
for any practical need.  So he proposes there are two kinds of
theoretical knowledge: some that's useful in practical matters and
some that isn't.  Since people interested in the latter are interested
in it for its own sake, it must be more noble.  So he sets as his
goal in the Metaphysics the exploration of knowledge that has no
practical use.  Which means no alarms go off when he takes on grand
but vaguely understood questions and ends up getting lost in a sea
of words.His mistake was to confuse motive and result.  Certainly, people
who want a deep understanding of something are often driven by
curiosity rather than any practical need.  But that doesn't mean
what they end up learning is useless.  It's very valuable in practice
to have a deep understanding of what you're doing; even if you're
never called on to solve advanced problems, you can see shortcuts
in the solution of simple ones, and your knowledge won't break down
in edge cases, as it would if you were relying on formulas you
didn't understand.  Knowledge is power.  That's what makes theoretical
knowledge prestigious.  It's also what causes smart people to be
curious about certain things and not others; our DNA is not so
disinterested as we might think.So while ideas don't have to have immediate practical applications
to be interesting, the kinds of things we find interesting will
surprisingly often turn out to have practical applications.The reason Aristotle didn't get anywhere in the Metaphysics was
partly that he set off with contradictory aims: to explore the most
abstract ideas, guided by the assumption that they were useless.
He was like an explorer looking for a territory to the north of
him, starting with the assumption that it was located to the south.And since his work became the map used by generations of future
explorers, he sent them off in the wrong direction as well. 
[8]
Perhaps worst of all, he protected them from both the criticism of
outsiders and the promptings of their own inner compass by establishing
the principle that the most noble sort of theoretical knowledge had
to be useless.The Metaphysics is mostly a failed experiment.  A few ideas from
it turned out to be worth keeping; the bulk of it has had no effect
at all.  The Metaphysics is among the least read of all famous
books.  It's not hard to understand the way Newton's Principia
is, but the way a garbled message is.Arguably it's an interesting failed experiment.  But unfortunately
that was not the conclusion Aristotle's successors derived from
works like the Metaphysics. 
[9]
Soon after, the western world
fell on intellectual hard times.  Instead of version 1s to be
superseded, the works of Plato and Aristotle became revered texts
to be mastered and discussed.  And so things remained for a shockingly
long time.  It was not till around 1600 (in Europe, where the center
of gravity had shifted by then) that one found people confident
enough to treat Aristotle's work as a catalog of mistakes.  And
even then they rarely said so outright.If it seems surprising that the gap was so long, consider how little
progress there was in math between Hellenistic times and the
Renaissance.In the intervening years an unfortunate idea took hold:  that it
was not only acceptable to produce works like the Metaphysics,
but that it was a particularly prestigious line of work, done by a
class of people called philosophers.  No one thought to go back and
debug Aristotle's motivating argument.  And so instead of correcting
the problem Aristotle discovered by falling into it—that you can
easily get lost if you talk too loosely about very abstract ideas—they 
continued to fall into it.The SingularityCuriously, however, the works they produced continued to attract
new readers.  Traditional philosophy occupies a kind of singularity
in this respect.  If you write in an unclear way about big ideas,
you produce something that seems tantalizingly attractive to
inexperienced but intellectually ambitious students.  Till one knows
better, it's hard to distinguish something that's hard to understand
because the writer was unclear in his own mind from something like
a mathematical proof that's hard to understand because the ideas
it represents are hard to understand.  To someone who hasn't learned
the difference, traditional philosophy seems extremely attractive:
as hard (and therefore impressive) as math, yet broader in scope.
That was what lured me in as a high school student.This singularity is even more singular in having its own defense
built in.  When things are hard to understand, people who suspect
they're nonsense generally keep quiet.  There's no way to prove a
text is meaningless.  The closest you can get is to show that the
official judges of some class of texts can't distinguish them from
placebos. 
[10]And so instead of denouncing philosophy, most people who suspected
it was a waste of time just studied other things.  That alone is
fairly damning evidence, considering philosophy's claims.  It's
supposed to be about the ultimate truths. Surely all smart people
would be interested in it, if it delivered on that promise.Because philosophy's flaws turned away the sort of people who might
have corrected them, they tended to be self-perpetuating.  Bertrand
Russell wrote in a letter in 1912:

  Hitherto the people attracted to philosophy have been mostly those
  who loved the big generalizations, which were all wrong, so that
  few people with exact minds have taken up the subject.
[11]

His response was to launch Wittgenstein at it, with dramatic results.I think Wittgenstein deserves to be famous not for the discovery
that most previous philosophy was a waste of time, which judging
from the circumstantial evidence must have been made by every smart
person who studied a little philosophy and declined to pursue it
further, but for how he acted in response.
[12]
Instead of quietly
switching to another field, he made a fuss, from inside.  He was
Gorbachev.The field of philosophy is still shaken from the fright Wittgenstein
gave it. 
[13]
Later in life he spent a lot of time talking about
how words worked.  Since that seems to be allowed, that's what a
lot of philosophers do now.  Meanwhile, sensing a vacuum in the
metaphysical speculation department, the people who used to do
literary criticism have been edging Kantward, under new names like
"literary theory," "critical theory," and when they're feeling
ambitious, plain "theory."  The writing is the familiar word salad:

  Gender is not like some of the other grammatical modes which
  express precisely a mode of conception without any reality that
  corresponds to the conceptual mode, and consequently do not express
  precisely something in reality by which the intellect could be
  moved to conceive a thing the way it does, even where that motive
  is not something in the thing as such.
  [14]

The singularity I've described is not going away.  There's a market
for writing that sounds impressive and can't be disproven. There
will always be both supply and demand.  So if one group abandons
this territory, there will always be others ready to occupy it.A ProposalWe may be able to do better.  Here's an intriguing possibility.
Perhaps we should do what Aristotle meant to do, instead of what
he did.  The goal he announces in the Metaphysics seems one worth
pursuing: to discover the most general truths.  That sounds good.
But instead of trying to discover them because they're useless,
let's try to discover them because they're useful.I propose we try again, but that we use that heretofore despised
criterion, applicability, as a guide to keep us from wondering
off into a swamp of abstractions.  Instead of trying to answer the
question:

  What are the most general truths?

let's try to answer the question

  Of all the useful things we can say, which are the most general?

The test of utility I propose is whether we cause people who read
what we've written to do anything differently afterward.  Knowing
we have to give definite (if implicit) advice will keep us from
straying beyond the resolution of the words we're using.The goal is the same as Aristotle's; we just approach it from a
different direction.As an example of a useful, general idea, consider that of the
controlled experiment.  There's an idea that has turned out to be
widely applicable.  Some might say it's part of science, but it's
not part of any specific science; it's literally meta-physics (in
our sense of "meta").   The idea of evolution is another. It turns
out to have quite broad applications—for example, in genetic
algorithms and even product design.  Frankfurt's distinction between
lying and bullshitting seems a promising recent example.
[15]These seem to me what philosophy should look like: quite general
observations that would cause someone who understood them to do
something differently.Such observations will necessarily be about things that are imprecisely
defined.  Once you start using words with precise meanings, you're
doing math.  So starting from utility won't entirely solve the
problem I described above—it won't flush out the metaphysical
singularity.  But it should help.  It gives people with good
intentions a new roadmap into abstraction.  And they may thereby
produce things that make the writing of the people with bad intentions
look bad by comparison.One drawback of this approach is that it won't produce the sort of
writing that gets you tenure.  And not just because it's not currently
the fashion.  In order to get tenure in any field you must not
arrive at conclusions that members of tenure committees can disagree
with.  In practice there are two kinds of solutions to this problem.
In math and the sciences, you can prove what you're saying, or at
any rate adjust your conclusions so you're not claiming anything
false ("6 of 8 subjects had lower blood pressure after the treatment").
In the humanities you can either avoid drawing any definite conclusions
(e.g. conclude that an issue is a complex one), or draw conclusions
so narrow that no one cares enough to disagree with you.The kind of philosophy I'm advocating won't be able to take either
of these routes.  At best you'll be able to achieve the essayist's
standard of proof, not the mathematician's or the experimentalist's.
And yet you won't be able to meet the usefulness test without
implying definite and fairly broadly applicable conclusions.  Worse
still, the usefulness test will tend to produce results that annoy
people: there's no use in telling people things they already believe,
and people are often upset to be told things they don't.Here's the exciting thing, though.  Anyone can do this.  Getting
to general plus useful by starting with useful and cranking up the
generality may be unsuitable for junior professors trying to get
tenure, but it's better for everyone else, including professors who
already have it.  This side of the mountain is a nice gradual slope.
You can start by writing things that are useful but very specific,
and then gradually make them more general.  Joe's has good burritos.
What makes a good burrito?  What makes good food?  What makes
anything good?  You can take as long as you want.  You don't have
to get all the way to the top of the mountain.  You don't have to
tell anyone you're doing philosophy.If it seems like a daunting task to do philosophy, here's an
encouraging thought.  The field is a lot younger than it seems.
Though the first philosophers in the western tradition lived about
2500 years ago, it would be misleading to say the field is 2500
years old, because for most of that time the leading practitioners
weren't doing much more than writing commentaries on Plato or
Aristotle while watching over their shoulders for the next invading
army.  In the times when they weren't, philosophy was hopelessly
intermingled with religion.  It didn't shake itself free till a
couple hundred years ago, and even then was afflicted by the
structural problems I've described above.  If I say this, some will
say it's a ridiculously overbroad and uncharitable generalization,
and others will say it's old news, but here goes: judging from their
works, most philosophers up to the present have been wasting their
time.  So in a sense the field is still at the first step. 
[16]That sounds a preposterous claim to make.  It won't seem so
preposterous in 10,000 years.  Civilization always seems old, because
it's always the oldest it's ever been.  The only way to say whether
something is really old or not is by looking at structural evidence,
and structurally philosophy is young; it's still reeling from the
unexpected breakdown of words.Philosophy is as young now as math was in 1500.  There is a lot
more to discover.Notes
[1]
In practice formal logic is not much use, because despite
some progress in the last 150 years we're still only able to formalize
a small percentage of statements.  We may never do that much better,
for the same reason 1980s-style "knowledge representation" could
never have worked; many statements may have no representation more
concise than a huge, analog brain state.[2]
It was harder for Darwin's contemporaries to grasp this than
we can easily imagine.  The story of creation in the Bible is not
just a Judeo-Christian concept; it's roughly what everyone must
have believed since before people were people.  The hard part of
grasping evolution was to realize that species weren't, as they
seem to be, unchanging, but had instead evolved from different,
simpler organisms over unimaginably long periods of time.Now we don't have to make that leap.  No one in an industrialized
country encounters the idea of evolution for the first time as an
adult.  Everyone's taught about it as a child, either as truth or
heresy.[3]
Greek philosophers before Plato wrote in verse.  This must
have affected what they said.  If you try to write about the nature
of the world in verse, it inevitably turns into incantation.  Prose
lets you be more precise, and more tentative.[4]
Philosophy is like math's
ne'er-do-well brother.  It was born when Plato and Aristotle looked
at the works of their predecessors and said in effect "why can't
you be more like your brother?"  Russell was still saying the same
thing 2300 years later.Math is the precise half of the most abstract ideas, and philosophy
the imprecise half.  It's probably inevitable that philosophy will
suffer by comparison, because there's no lower bound to its precision.
Bad math is merely boring, whereas bad philosophy is nonsense.  And
yet there are some good ideas in the imprecise half.[5]
Aristotle's best work was in logic and zoology, both of which
he can  be said to have invented.  But the most dramatic departure
from his predecessors was a new, much more analytical style of
thinking.  He was arguably the first scientist.[6]
Brooks, Rodney, Programming in Common Lisp, Wiley, 1985, p.
94.[7]
Some would say we depend on Aristotle more than we realize,
because his ideas were one of the ingredients in our common culture.
Certainly a lot of the words we use have a connection with Aristotle,
but it seems a bit much to suggest that we wouldn't have the concept
of the essence of something or the distinction between matter and
form if Aristotle hadn't written about them.One way to see how much we really depend on Aristotle would be to
diff European culture with Chinese: what ideas did European culture
have in 1800 that Chinese culture didn't, in virtue of Aristotle's
contribution?[8]
The meaning of the word "philosophy" has changed over time.
In ancient times it covered a broad range of topics, comparable in
scope to our "scholarship" (though without the methodological
implications).  Even as late as Newton's time it included what we
now call "science."  But core of the subject today is still what
seemed to Aristotle the core: the attempt to discover the most
general truths.Aristotle didn't call this "metaphysics."  That name got assigned
to it because the books we now call the Metaphysics came after
(meta = after) the Physics in the standard edition of Aristotle's
works compiled by Andronicus of Rhodes three centuries later.  What
we call "metaphysics" Aristotle called "first philosophy."[9]
Some of Aristotle's immediate successors may have realized
this, but it's hard to say because most of their works are lost.[10]
Sokal, Alan, "Transgressing the Boundaries: Toward a Transformative
Hermeneutics of Quantum Gravity," Social Text 46/47, pp. 217-252.Abstract-sounding nonsense seems to be most attractive when it's
aligned with some axe the audience already has to grind.  If this
is so we should find it's most popular with groups that are (or
feel) weak.  The powerful don't need its reassurance.[11]
Letter to Ottoline Morrell, December 1912.  Quoted in:Monk, Ray, Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius, Penguin, 1991,
p. 75.[12]
A preliminary result, that all metaphysics between Aristotle
and 1783 had been a waste of time, is due to I. Kant.[13]
Wittgenstein asserted a sort of mastery to which the inhabitants
of early 20th century Cambridge seem to have been peculiarly
vulnerable—perhaps partly because so many had been raised religious
and then stopped believing, so had a vacant space in their heads
for someone to tell them what to do (others chose Marx or Cardinal
Newman), and partly because a quiet, earnest place like Cambridge
in that era had no natural immunity to messianic figures, just as
European politics then had no natural immunity to dictators.[14]
This is actually from the Ordinatio of Duns Scotus (ca.
1300), with "number" replaced by "gender."  Plus ca change.Wolter, Allan (trans), Duns Scotus: Philosophical Writings, Nelson,
1963, p. 92.[15]
Frankfurt, Harry, On Bullshit,  Princeton University Press,
2005.[16]
Some introductions to philosophy now take the line that
philosophy is worth studying as a process rather than for any
particular truths you'll learn.  The philosophers whose works they
cover would be rolling in their graves at that.  They hoped they
were doing more than serving as examples of how to argue: they hoped
they were getting results.  Most were wrong, but it doesn't seem
an impossible hope.This argument seems to me like someone in 1500 looking at the lack
of results achieved by alchemy and saying its value was as a process.
No, they were going about it wrong.  It turns out it is possible
to transmute lead into gold (though not economically at current
energy prices), but the route to that knowledge was to
backtrack and try another approach.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Paul Buchheit, Jessica Livingston, 
Robert Morris, Mark Nitzberg, and Peter Norvig for reading drafts of this.French Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

September 2007A few weeks ago I had a thought so heretical that it really surprised
me. It may not matter all that much where you go to college.For me, as for a lot of middle class kids, getting into a good
college was more or less the meaning of life when I was growing up.
What was I?  A student.  To do that well meant to get good grades.
Why did one have to get good grades?  To get into a good college.
And why did one want to do that?  There seemed to be several reasons:
you'd learn more, get better jobs, make more money.  But it didn't
matter exactly what the benefits would be.  College was a bottleneck
through which all your future prospects passed; everything would
be better if you went to a better college.A few weeks ago I realized that somewhere along the line I had
stopped believing that.What first set me thinking about this was the new trend of worrying
obsessively about what 
kindergarten
your kids go to.  It seemed to
me this couldn't possibly matter.  Either it won't help your kid
get into Harvard, or if it does, getting into Harvard won't mean
much anymore.  And then I thought: how much does it mean even now?It turns out I have a lot of data about that.  My three partners
and I run a seed stage investment firm called 
Y Combinator.  We
invest when the company is just a couple guys and an idea.  The
idea doesn't matter much; it will change anyway.  Most of our
decision is based on the founders.  The average founder is three
years out of college.  Many have just graduated; a few are still
in school.  So we're in much the same position as a graduate program,
or a company hiring people right out of college.  Except our choices
are immediately and visibly tested.  There are two possible outcomes
for a startup: success or failure—and usually you know within a
year which it will be.The test applied to a startup is among the purest of real world
tests.  A startup succeeds or fails depending almost entirely on
the efforts of the founders.  Success is decided by the market: you
only succeed if users like what you've built.  And users don't care
where you went to college.As well as having precisely measurable results, we have a lot of
them.  Instead of doing a small number of large deals like a
traditional venture capital fund, we do a large number of small
ones.  We currently fund about 40 companies a year, selected from
about 900 applications representing a total of about 2000 people. 
[1]Between the volume of people we judge and the rapid, unequivocal
test that's applied to our choices, Y Combinator has been an
unprecedented opportunity for learning how to pick winners.  One
of the most surprising things we've learned is how little it matters
where people went to college.I thought I'd already been cured of caring about that.  There's
nothing like going to grad school at Harvard to cure you of any
illusions you might have about the average Harvard undergrad.  And
yet Y Combinator showed us we were still overestimating people who'd
been to elite colleges.  We'd interview people from MIT or Harvard
or Stanford and sometimes find ourselves thinking: they must be
smarter than they seem.  It took us a few iterations to learn to
trust our senses.Practically everyone thinks that someone who went to MIT or Harvard
or Stanford must be smart.  Even people who hate you for it believe
it.But when you think about what it means to have gone to an elite
college, how could this be true?   We're talking about a decision
made by admissions officers—basically, HR people—based on a
cursory examination of a huge pile of depressingly similar applications
submitted by seventeen year olds.  And what do they have to go on?
An easily gamed standardized test; a short essay telling you what
the kid thinks you want to hear; an interview with a random alum;
a high school record that's largely an index of obedience.  Who
would rely on such a test?And yet a lot of companies do.  A lot of companies are very much
influenced by where applicants went to college.  How could they be?
I think I know the answer to that.There used to be a saying in the corporate world: "No one ever got
fired for buying IBM."  You no longer hear this about IBM specifically,
but the idea is very much alive; there is a whole category of
"enterprise" software companies that exist to take advantage of it.
People buying technology for large organizations don't care if they
pay a fortune for mediocre software.  It's not their money.  They
just want to buy from a supplier who seems safe—a company with
an established name, confident salesmen, impressive offices, and
software that conforms to all the current fashions.  Not necessarily
a company that will deliver so much as one that, if they do let you
down, will still seem to have been a prudent choice.  So companies
have evolved to fill that niche.A recruiter at a big company is in much the same position as someone
buying technology for one.  If someone went to Stanford and is not
obviously insane, they're probably a safe bet.  And a safe bet is
enough.  No one ever measures recruiters by the later performance
of people they turn down. 
[2]I'm not saying, of course, that elite colleges have evolved to prey
upon the weaknesses of large organizations the way enterprise
software companies have.  But they work as if they had.  In addition
to the power of the brand name, graduates of elite colleges have
two critical qualities that plug right into the way large organizations
work.  They're good at doing what they're asked, since that's what
it takes to please the adults who judge you at seventeen.  And
having been to an elite college makes them more confident.Back in the days when people might spend their whole career at one
big company, these qualities must have been very valuable.  Graduates
of elite colleges would have been capable, yet amenable to authority.
And since individual performance is so hard to measure in large
organizations, their own confidence would have been the starting
point for their reputation.Things are very different in the new world of startups.  We couldn't
save someone from the market's judgement even if we wanted to.  And
being charming and confident counts for nothing with users.  All
users care about is whether you make something they like.  If you
don't, you're dead.Knowing that test is coming makes us work a lot harder to get the
right answers than anyone would if they were merely hiring people.
We can't afford to have any illusions about the predictors of
success.  And what we've found is that the variation between schools
is so much smaller than the variation between individuals that it's
negligible by comparison.  We can learn more about someone in the
first minute of talking to them than by knowing where they went to
school.It seems obvious when you put it that way.  Look at the individual,
not where they went to college.  But that's a weaker statement than
the idea I began with, that it doesn't matter much where a given
individual goes to college.  Don't you learn things at the best
schools that you wouldn't learn at lesser places?Apparently not.  Obviously you can't prove this in the case of a
single individual, but you can tell from aggregate evidence: you
can't, without asking them, distinguish people who went to one
school from those who went to another three times as far down the
US News list. 
[3]
Try it and see.How can this be?  Because how much you learn in college depends a
lot more on you than the college.  A determined party animal can
get through the best school without learning anything.  And someone
with a real thirst for knowledge will be able to find a few smart
people to learn from at a school that isn't prestigious at all.
The other students are the biggest advantage of going to an elite
college; you learn more from them than the professors.  But
you should be able to reproduce this at most colleges if you make
a conscious effort to find smart friends.  At
most colleges you can find at least a handful of other smart students,
and most people have only a handful of close friends in college
anyway. 
[4]
The odds of finding smart professors are even better.
The curve for faculty is a lot flatter than for students, especially
in math and the hard sciences; you have to go pretty far down the
list of colleges before you stop finding smart professors in the
math department.So it's not surprising that we've found the relative prestige of
different colleges useless in judging individuals.  There's a lot
of randomness in how colleges select people, and what they learn
there depends much more on them than the college.  Between these
two sources of variation, the college someone went to doesn't mean
a lot.  It is to some degree a predictor of ability, but so weak
that we regard it mainly as a source of error and try consciously
to ignore it.I doubt what we've discovered is an anomaly specific to startups.
Probably people have always overestimated the importance of where
one goes to college.  We're just finally able to measure it.The unfortunate thing is not just that people are judged by such a
superficial test, but that so many judge themselves by it.  A lot
of people, probably the majority of people in America, have
some amount of insecurity about where, or whether, they went to
college.  The tragedy of the situation is that by far the greatest
liability of not having gone to the college you'd have liked is
your own feeling that you're thereby lacking something.  Colleges
are a bit like exclusive clubs in this respect.  There is only one
real advantage to being a member of most exclusive clubs: you know
you wouldn't be missing much if you weren't.  When you're excluded,
you can only imagine the advantages of being an insider.  But
invariably they're larger in your imagination than in real life.So it is with colleges.  Colleges differ, but they're nothing like
the stamp of destiny so many imagine them to be.  People aren't
what some admissions officer decides about them at seventeen.
They're what they make themselves.Indeed, the great advantage of not caring where people went to
college is not just that you can stop judging them (and yourself)
by superficial measures, but that you can focus instead on what
really matters.  What matters is what you make of yourself.  
I think that's what we
should tell kids.  Their job isn't to get good grades so they can
get into a good college, but to learn and do.  And not just because
that's more rewarding than worldly success.  That will increasingly
be the route to worldly success.Notes[1] 
Is what we measure worth measuring?  I think so.  You can get
rich simply by being energetic and unscrupulous, but getting rich
from a technology startup takes some amount of brains.   It is just
the kind of work the upper middle class values; it has about the
same intellectual component as being a doctor.[2] 
Actually, someone did, once.  Mitch Kapor's wife Freada was
in charge of HR at Lotus in the early years.  (As he is at pains
to point out, they did not become romantically involved till
afterward.)  At one point they worried Lotus was losing its startup
edge and turning into a big company.  So as an experiment she sent
their recruiters the resumes of the first 40 employees, with
identifying details changed.  These were the people who had made
Lotus into the star it was.  Not one got an interview.[3] 
The US News list?  Surely no one trusts that.  Even if the
statistics they consider are useful, how do they decide on the
relative weights?  The reason the US News list is meaningful is
precisely because they are so intellectually dishonest in that
respect.  There is no external source they can use to calibrate the
weighting of the statistics they use; if there were, we could just
use that instead.  What they must do is adjust the weights till the
top schools are the usual suspects in about the right order.  So
in effect what the US News list tells us is what the editors think
the top schools are, which is probably not far from the conventional
wisdom on the matter.  The amusing thing is, because some schools
work hard to game the system, the editors will have to keep tweaking
their algorithm to get the rankings they want.[4] 
Possible doesn't mean easy, of course.  A smart student at a party school
will inevitably be something of an outcast, just as he or
she would be in most high schools.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Sarah Harlin, Jessica Livingston, Jackie
McDonough, Peter Norvig, and Robert Morris for reading drafts of
this.French Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


August 2007(This is a talk I gave at the last 
Y Combinator dinner of the summer. 
Usually we don't have a speaker at the last dinner; it's more of
a party.  But it seemed worth spoiling the atmosphere if I could
save some of the startups from
preventable deaths.  So at the last minute I cooked up this rather
grim talk.  I didn't mean this as an essay; I wrote it down
because I only had two hours before dinner and think fastest while
writing.)
A couple days ago I told a reporter that we expected about a third
of the companies we funded to succeed.  Actually I was being
conservative.  I'm hoping it might be as much as a half.  Wouldn't
it be amazing if we could achieve a 50% success rate?Another way of saying that is that half of you are going to die.  Phrased
that way, it doesn't sound good at all.  In fact, it's kind of weird
when you think about it, because our definition of success is that
the founders get rich.  If half the startups we fund succeed, then
half of you are going to get rich and the other half are going to
get nothing.If you can just avoid dying, you get rich.  That sounds like a joke,
but it's actually a pretty good description of what happens in a
typical startup.  It certainly describes what happened in Viaweb.
We avoided dying till we got rich.It was really close, too.  When we were visiting Yahoo to talk about
being acquired, we had to interrupt everything and borrow one of
their conference rooms to talk down an investor who was about to
back out of a new funding round we needed to stay alive.   So even
in the middle of getting rich we were fighting off the grim reaper.You may have heard that quote about luck consisting of opportunity
meeting preparation.  You've now done the preparation.  The work
you've done so far has, in effect, put you in a position to get
lucky: you can now get rich by not letting your company die.  That's
more than most people have.  So let's talk about how not to die.We've done this five times now, and we've seen a bunch of startups
die.  About 10 of them so far.  We don't know exactly what happens
when they die, because they generally don't die loudly and heroically.
Mostly they crawl off somewhere and die.For us the main indication of impending doom is when we don't hear
from you.  When we haven't heard from, or about, a startup for a
couple months, that's a bad sign.  If we send them an email asking
what's up, and they don't reply, that's a really bad sign.  So far
that is a 100% accurate predictor of death.Whereas if a startup regularly does new deals and releases and
either sends us mail or shows up at YC events, they're probably
going to live.I realize this will sound naive, but maybe the linkage works in
both directions.  Maybe if you can arrange that we keep hearing
from you, you won't die.That may not be so naive as it sounds.  You've probably noticed
that having dinners every Tuesday with us and the other founders
causes you to get more done than you would otherwise, because every
dinner is a mini Demo Day.  Every dinner is a kind of a deadline.
So the mere constraint of staying in regular contact with us will
push you to make things happen, because otherwise you'll be embarrassed
to tell us that you haven't done anything new since the last time
we talked.If this works, it would be an amazing hack.  It would be pretty
cool if merely by staying in regular contact with us you could get
rich.  It sounds crazy, but there's a good chance that would work.A variant is to stay in touch with other YC-funded startups.  There
is now a whole neighborhood of them in San Francisco.  If you move
there, the peer pressure that made you work harder all summer will
continue to operate.When startups die, the official cause of death is always either
running out of money or a critical founder bailing.  Often the two
occur simultaneously.  But I think the underlying cause is usually
that they've become demoralized.  You rarely hear of a startup
that's working around the clock doing deals and pumping out new
features, and dies because they can't pay their bills and their ISP
unplugs their server.Startups rarely die in mid keystroke.  So keep typing!If so many startups get demoralized and fail when merely by hanging
on they could get rich, you have to assume that running a startup
can be demoralizing.  That is certainly true.  I've been there, and
that's why I've never done another startup.  The low points in a
startup are just unbelievably low.  I bet even Google had moments
where things seemed hopeless.Knowing that should help.  If you know it's going to feel terrible
sometimes, then when it feels terrible you won't think "ouch, this
feels terrible, I give up."  It feels that way for everyone.  And
if you just hang on, things will probably get better.  The metaphor
people use to describe the way a startup feels is at least a roller
coaster and not drowning.  You don't just sink and sink; there are
ups after the downs.Another feeling that seems alarming but is in fact normal in a
startup is the feeling that what you're doing isn't working.  The
reason you can expect to feel this is that what you do probably
won't work.  Startups almost never get it right the first time.
Much more commonly you launch something, and no one cares.  Don't
assume when this happens that you've failed.  That's normal for
startups.  But don't sit around doing nothing.  Iterate.I like Paul Buchheit's suggestion of trying to make something that
at least someone really loves.  As long as you've made something
that a few users are ecstatic about, you're on the right track.  It
will be good for your morale to have even a handful of users who
really love you, and startups run on morale.  But also it
will tell you what to focus on.  What is it about you that they
love?  Can you do more of that?  Where can you find more people who
love that sort of thing?  As long as you have some core of users
who love you, all you have to do is expand it.  It may take a while,
but as long as you keep plugging away, you'll win in the end.  Both
Blogger and Delicious did that.  Both took years to succeed.  But
both began with a core of fanatically devoted users, and all Evan
and Joshua had to do was grow that core incrementally.  
Wufoo is
on the same trajectory now.So when you release something and it seems like no one cares, look
more closely.  Are there zero users who really love you, or is there
at least some little group that does?  It's quite possible there
will be zero.  In that case, tweak your product and try again.
Every one of you is working on a space that contains at least one
winning permutation somewhere in it.  If you just keep trying,
you'll find it.Let me mention some things not to do.  The number one thing not to
do is other things.  If you find yourself saying a sentence that
ends with "but we're going to keep working on the startup," you are
in big trouble.  Bob's going to grad school, but we're going to
keep working on the startup.  We're moving back to Minnesota, but
we're going to keep working on the startup.  We're taking on some
consulting projects, but we're going to keep working on the startup.
You may as well just translate these to "we're giving up on the
startup, but we're not willing to admit that to ourselves," because
that's what it means most of the time.  A startup is so hard that
working on it can't be preceded by "but."In particular, don't go to graduate school, and don't start other
projects.  Distraction is fatal to startups.  Going to (or back to)
school is a huge predictor of death because in addition to the
distraction it gives you something to say you're doing.  If you're
only doing a startup, then if the startup fails, you fail.  If
you're in grad school and your startup fails, you can say later "Oh
yeah, we had this startup on the side when I was in grad school,
but it didn't go anywhere."You can't use euphemisms like "didn't go anywhere" for something
that's your only occupation.  People won't let you.One of the most interesting things we've discovered from working
on Y Combinator is that founders are more motivated by the fear of
looking bad than by the hope of getting millions of dollars.   So
if you want to get millions of dollars, put yourself in a position
where failure will be public and humiliating.When we first met the founders of 
Octopart, they seemed very smart,
but not a great bet to succeed, because they didn't seem especially
committed.  One of the two founders was still in grad school.  It
was the usual story: he'd drop out if it looked like the startup
was taking off.  Since then he has not only dropped out of grad
school, but appeared full length in 
Newsweek 
with the word "Billionaire"
printed across his chest.  He just cannot fail now.  Everyone he
knows has seen that picture.  Girls who dissed him in high school
have seen it.  His mom probably has it on the fridge.  It would be
unthinkably humiliating to fail now.  At this point he is committed
to fight to the death.I wish every startup we funded could appear in a Newsweek article
describing them as the next generation of billionaires, because
then none of them would be able to give up.  The success rate would
be 90%.  I'm not kidding.When we first knew the Octoparts they were lighthearted, cheery
guys.  Now when we talk to them they seem grimly determined.  The
electronic parts distributors are trying to squash them to keep
their monopoly pricing.  (If it strikes you as odd that people still
order electronic parts out of thick paper catalogs in 2007, there's
a reason for that.  The distributors want to prevent the transparency
that comes from having prices online.)  I feel kind of bad that
we've transformed these guys from lighthearted to grimly determined.
But that comes with the territory.  If a startup succeeds, you get
millions of dollars, and you don't get that kind of money just by
asking for it.  You have to assume it takes some amount of pain.And however tough things get for the Octoparts, I predict they'll
succeed.  They may have to morph themselves into something totally
different, but they won't just crawl off and die.  They're smart;
they're working in a promising field; and they just cannot give up.All of you guys already have the first two.  You're all smart and
working on promising ideas.  Whether you end up among the living
or the dead comes down to the third ingredient, not giving up.So I'll tell you now: bad shit is coming.  It always is in a startup.
The odds of getting from launch to liquidity without some kind of
disaster happening are one in a thousand.  So don't get demoralized.
When the disaster strikes, just say to yourself, ok, this was what
Paul was talking about.  What did he say to do?  Oh, yeah.  Don't
give up.Japanese TranslationArabic Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

August 2007A good programmer working intensively on his own code can hold it
in his mind the way a mathematician holds a problem he's working
on.  Mathematicians don't answer questions by working them out on
paper the way schoolchildren are taught to.  They do more in their
heads: they try to understand a problem space well enough that they
can walk around it the way you can walk around the memory of the
house you grew up in.  At its best programming is the same.  You
hold the whole program in your head, and you can manipulate it at
will.That's particularly valuable at the start of a project, because
initially the most important thing is to be able to change what
you're doing.  Not just to solve the problem in a different way,
but to change the problem you're solving.Your code is your understanding of the problem you're exploring.
So it's only when you have your code in your head that you really
understand the problem.It's not easy to get a program into your head.  If you leave a
project for a few months, it can take days to really understand it
again when you return to it.  Even when you're actively working on
a program it can take half an hour to load into your head when you
start work each day.  And that's in the best case.  Ordinary
programmers working in typical office conditions never enter this
mode.  Or to put it more dramatically, ordinary programmers working
in typical office conditions never really understand the problems
they're solving.Even the best programmers don't always have the whole program they're
working on loaded into their heads.   But there are things you can
do to help: Avoid distractions.  Distractions are bad for many types of work,
   but especially bad for programming, because programmers tend to
   operate at the limit of the detail they can handle.The danger of a distraction depends not on how long it is, but
   on how much it scrambles your brain.  A programmer can leave the
   office and go and get a sandwich without losing the code in his
   head.  But the wrong kind of interruption can wipe your brain
   in 30 seconds.Oddly enough, scheduled distractions may be worse than unscheduled
   ones.  If you know you have a meeting in an hour, you don't even
   start working on something hard. Work in long stretches.  Since there's a fixed cost each time
   you start working on a program, it's more efficient to work in
   a few long sessions than many short ones.  There will of course
   come a point where you get stupid because you're tired.  This
   varies from person to person.  I've heard of people hacking for
   36 hours straight, but the most I've ever been able to manage
   is about 18, and I work best in chunks of no more than 12.The optimum is not the limit you can physically endure.  There's
   an advantage as well as a cost of breaking up a project.  Sometimes
   when you return to a problem after a rest, you find your unconscious
   mind has left an answer waiting for you. Use succinct languages.  More 
   powerful programming languages
   make programs shorter. And programmers seem to think of programs
   at least partially in the language they're using to write them.
   The more succinct the language, the shorter the program, and the
   easier it is to load and keep in your head.You can magnify the effect of a powerful language by using a
   style called bottom-up programming, where you write programs in
   multiple layers, the lower ones acting as programming languages
   for those above.  If you do this right, you only have to keep
   the topmost layer in your head. Keep rewriting your program.  Rewriting a program often yields
   a cleaner design.  But it would have advantages even if it didn't:
   you have to understand a program completely to rewrite it, so
   there is no better way to get one loaded into your head. Write rereadable code.  All programmers know it's good to write
   readable code.  But you yourself are the most important reader.
   Especially in the beginning; a prototype is a conversation with
   yourself.  And when writing for yourself you have different
   priorities.  If you're writing for other people, you may not
   want to make code too dense.  Some parts of a program may be
   easiest to read if you spread things out, like an introductory 
   textbook.  Whereas if you're writing code to make it easy to reload 
   into your head, it may be best to go for brevity. Work in small groups.  When you manipulate a program in your
   head, your vision tends to stop at the edge of the code you own.
   Other parts you don't understand as well, and more importantly,
   can't take liberties with.  So the smaller the number of
   programmers, the more completely a project can mutate.  If there's
   just one programmer, as there often is at first, you can do
   all-encompassing redesigns. Don't have multiple people editing the same piece of code.  You
   never understand other people's code as well as your own.  No
   matter how thoroughly you've read it, you've only read it, not
   written it.  So if a piece of code is written by multiple authors,
   none of them understand it as well as a single author would.And of course you can't safely redesign something other people
   are working on.  It's not just that you'd have to ask permission.
   You don't even let yourself think of such things.  Redesigning
   code with several authors is like changing laws; redesigning
   code you alone control is like seeing the other interpretation
   of an ambiguous image.If you want to put several people to work on a project, divide
   it into components and give each to one person. Start small.  A program gets easier to hold in your head as you
   become familiar with it.  You can start to treat parts as black
   boxes once you feel confident you've fully explored them.  But
   when you first start working on a project, you're forced to see
   everything.  If you start with too big a problem, you may never
   quite be able to encompass it.  So if you need to write a big,
   complex program, the best way to begin may not be to write a
   spec for it, but to write a prototype that solves a subset of
   the problem.  Whatever the advantages of planning, they're often
   outweighed by the advantages of being able to keep a program in
   your head.

It's striking how often programmers manage to hit all eight points
by accident.  Someone has an idea for a new project, but because
it's not officially sanctioned, he has to do it in off hours—which
turn out to be more productive because there are no distractions.
Driven by his enthusiasm for the new project he works on it for
many hours at a stretch.  Because it's initially just an
experiment, instead of a "production" language he uses a mere
"scripting" language—which is in fact far more powerful.  He
completely rewrites the program several times; that wouldn't be
justifiable for an official project, but this is a labor of love
and he wants it to be perfect.  And since no one is going to see
it except him, he omits any comments except the note-to-self variety.
He works in a small group perforce, because he either hasn't told
anyone else about the idea yet, or it seems so unpromising that no
one else is allowed to work on it.  Even if there is a group, they
couldn't have multiple people editing the same code, because it
changes too fast for that to be possible.  And the project starts
small because the idea is small at first; he just has some cool
hack he wants to try out.Even more striking are the number of officially sanctioned projects
that manage to do all eight things wrong.  In fact, if you look at
the way software gets written in most organizations, it's almost
as if they were deliberately trying to do things wrong. In a sense,
they are.  One of the defining qualities of organizations since
there have been such a thing is to treat individuals as interchangeable
parts.  This works well for more parallelizable tasks, like fighting
wars.  For most of history a well-drilled army of professional
soldiers could be counted on to beat an army of individual warriors,
no matter how valorous.  But having ideas is not very parallelizable.
And that's what programs are: ideas.It's not merely true that organizations dislike the idea of depending
on individual genius, it's a tautology.  It's part of the definition
of an organization not to.  Of our current concept of an organization,
at least.Maybe we could define a new kind of organization that combined the
efforts of individuals without requiring them to be interchangeable.
Arguably a market is such a form of organization, though it may be
more accurate to describe a market as a degenerate case—as what
you get by default when organization isn't possible.Probably the best we'll do is some kind of hack, like making the
programming parts of an organization work differently from the rest.
Perhaps the optimal solution is for big companies not even to try
to develop ideas in house, but simply to 
buy them.  But regardless
of what the solution turns out to be, the first step is to realize
there's a problem.  There is a contradiction in the very phrase
"software company."   The two words are pulling in opposite directions.
Any good programmer in a large organization is going to be at odds
with it, because organizations are designed to prevent what
programmers strive for.Good programmers manage to get a lot done anyway.  
But often it
requires practically an act of rebellion against the organizations
that employ them.  Perhaps it will help if more people understand that the way
programmers behave is driven by the demands of the work they do.
It's not because they're irresponsible that they work in long binges
during which they blow off all other obligations, plunge straight into
programming instead of writing specs first, and rewrite code that
already works.  It's not because they're unfriendly that they prefer
to work alone, or growl at people who pop their head in the door
to say hello.  This apparently random collection of annoying habits
has a single explanation: the power of holding a program in one's
head.Whether or not understanding this can help large organizations, it
can certainly help their competitors.  The weakest point in big
companies is that they don't let individual programmers do great
work.  So if you're a little startup, this is the place to attack
them.  Take on the kind of problems that have to be solved in one
big brain.Thanks to Sam Altman, David Greenspan, Aaron Iba, Jessica Livingston,
Robert Morris, Peter Norvig, Lisa Randall, Emmett Shear, Sergei Tsarev,
and Stephen Wolfram for reading drafts of this.Japanese TranslationSimplified Chinese TranslationPortuguese TranslationBulgarian TranslationRussian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

July 2007I have too much stuff.  Most people in America do.  In fact, the
poorer people are, the more stuff they seem to have.  Hardly anyone
is so poor that they can't afford a front yard full of old cars.It wasn't always this way.  Stuff used to be rare and valuable.
You can still see evidence of that if you look for it.  For example,
in my house in Cambridge, which was built in 1876, the bedrooms
don't have closets.  In those days people's stuff fit in a chest
of drawers.  Even as recently as a few decades ago there was a lot
less stuff.  When I look back at photos from the 1970s, I'm surprised
how empty houses look.  As a kid I had what I thought was a huge
fleet of toy cars, but they'd be dwarfed by the number of toys my
nephews have.  All together my Matchboxes and Corgis took up about
a third of the surface of my bed.  In my nephews' rooms the bed is
the only clear space.Stuff has gotten a lot cheaper, but our attitudes toward it haven't
changed correspondingly.  We overvalue stuff.That was a big problem
for me when I had no money.  I felt poor, and stuff seemed valuable,
so almost instinctively I accumulated it.  Friends would leave
something behind when they moved, or I'd see something as I was
walking down the street on trash night (beware of anything you find
yourself describing as "perfectly good"), or I'd find something in
almost new condition for a tenth its retail price at a garage sale.
And pow, more stuff.In fact these free or nearly free things weren't bargains, because
they were worth even less than they cost.  Most of the stuff I
accumulated was worthless, because I didn't need it.What I didn't understand was that the value of some new acquisition
wasn't the difference between its retail price and what I paid for
it.  It was the value I derived from it.  Stuff is an extremely
illiquid asset.  Unless you have some plan for selling that valuable
thing you got so cheaply, what difference does it make what it's
"worth?"  The only way you're ever going to extract any value from
it is to use it.  And if you don't have any immediate use for it,
you probably never will.Companies that sell stuff have spent huge sums training us to think
stuff is still valuable.  But it would be closer to the truth to
treat stuff as worthless.In fact, worse than worthless, because once you've accumulated a
certain amount of stuff, it starts to own you rather than the other
way around.  I know of one couple who couldn't retire to the town
they preferred because they couldn't afford a place there big enough
for all their stuff.  Their house isn't theirs; it's their stuff's.And unless you're extremely organized, a house full of stuff can
be very depressing. A cluttered room saps one's spirits.  One
reason, obviously, is that there's less room for people in a room
full of stuff.  But there's more going on than that.  I think humans
constantly scan their environment to build a mental model of what's
around them.  And the harder a scene is to parse, the less energy
you have left for conscious thoughts.  A cluttered room is literally
exhausting.(This could explain why clutter doesn't seem to bother kids as much
as adults. Kids are less perceptive.  They build a coarser model
of their surroundings, and this consumes less energy.)I first realized the worthlessness of stuff when I lived in Italy
for a year.  All I took with me was one large backpack of stuff.
The rest of my stuff I left in my landlady's attic back in the US.
And you know what?  All I missed were some of the books.  By the
end of the year I couldn't even remember what else I had stored in
that attic.And yet when I got back I didn't discard so much as a box of it.
Throw away a perfectly good rotary telephone?  I might need that
one day.The really painful thing to recall is not just that I accumulated
all this useless stuff, but that I often spent money I desperately
needed on stuff that I didn't.Why would I do that?  Because the people whose job is to sell you
stuff are really, really good at it.  The average 25 year old is
no match for companies that have spent years figuring out how to
get you to spend money on stuff.  They make the experience of buying
stuff so pleasant that "shopping" becomes a leisure activity.How do you protect yourself from these people?  It can't be easy.
I'm a fairly skeptical person, and their tricks worked on me well
into my thirties.  But one thing that might work is to ask yourself,
before buying something, "is this going to make my life noticeably
better?"A friend of mine cured herself of a clothes buying habit by asking
herself before she bought anything "Am I going to wear this all the
time?"  If she couldn't convince herself that something she was
thinking of buying would become one of those few things she wore
all the time, she wouldn't buy it.  I think that would work for any
kind of purchase.  Before you buy anything, ask yourself: will this
be something I use constantly?  Or is it just something nice?  Or
worse still, a mere bargain?The worst stuff in this respect may be stuff you don't use much
because it's too good.  Nothing owns you like fragile stuff.  For
example, the "good china" so many households have, and whose defining
quality is not so much that it's fun to use, but that one must be
especially careful not to break it.Another way to resist acquiring stuff is to think of the overall
cost of owning it.  The purchase price is just the beginning.  You're
going to have to think about that thing for years—perhaps for
the rest of your life.  Every thing you own takes energy away from
you.  Some give more than they take.  Those are the only things
worth having.I've now stopped accumulating stuff.  Except books—but books are
different.  Books are more like a fluid than individual objects.
It's not especially inconvenient to own several thousand books,
whereas if you owned several thousand random possessions you'd be
a local celebrity.  But except for books, I now actively avoid
stuff.  If I want to spend money on some kind of treat, I'll take
services over 
goods any day.I'm not claiming this is because I've achieved some kind of zenlike
detachment from material things.  I'm talking about something more
mundane.  A historical change has taken place, and I've now realized
it.  Stuff used to be valuable, and now it's not.In industrialized countries the same thing happened with food in
the middle of the twentieth century.  As food got cheaper (or we
got richer; they're indistinguishable), eating too much started to
be a bigger danger than eating too little.   We've now reached that
point with stuff.  For most people, rich or poor, stuff has become
a burden.The good news is, if you're carrying a burden without knowing it,
your life could be better than you realize.  Imagine walking around
for years with five pound ankle weights, then suddenly having them
removed.Spanish TranslationRussian TranslationItalian TranslationPolish TranslationTurkish TranslationFrench TranslationSlovak TranslationRomanian TranslationGerman Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

July 2007An investor wants to give you money for a certain percentage of
your startup.  Should you take it?  You're about to hire your first
employee.  How much stock should you give him?These are some of the hardest questions founders face.  And yet
both have the same answer:1/(1 - n)Whenever you're trading stock in your company for anything, whether
it's money or an employee or a deal with another company, the test
for whether to do it is the same.  You should give up n% of your
company if what you trade it for improves your average outcome
enough that the (100 - n)% you have left is worth more than the
whole company was before.For example, if an investor wants to buy half your company, how
much does that investment have to improve your average outcome for
you to break even?  Obviously it has to double: if you trade half
your company for something that more than doubles the company's
average outcome, you're net ahead.  You have half as big a share
of something worth more than twice as much.In the general case, if n is the fraction of the company you're
giving up, the deal is a good one if it makes the company worth
more than 1/(1 - n).For example, suppose Y Combinator offers to fund you in return for
7% of your company.  In this case, n is .07 and 1/(1 - n) is 1.075.
So you should take the deal if you believe we can improve your
average outcome by more than 7.5%.  If we improve your outcome by
10%, you're net ahead, because the remaining .93 you hold is worth
.93 x 1.1 = 1.023.
[1]One of the things the equity equation shows us is that, financially
at least, taking money from a top VC firm can be a really good deal.
Greg Mcadoo from Sequoia recently said at a YC dinner that when
Sequoia invests alone they like to take about 30% of a company.
1/.7 = 1.43, meaning that deal is worth taking if they can improve
your outcome by more than 43%.  For the average startup, that would
be an extraordinary bargain.  It would improve the average startup's
prospects by more than 43% just to be able to say they were funded
by Sequoia, even if they never actually got the money.The reason Sequoia is such a good deal is that the percentage of
the company they take is artificially low.  They don't even try to
get market price for their investment; they limit their holdings
to leave the founders enough stock to feel the company is still
theirs.The catch is that Sequoia gets about 6000 business plans a year and
funds about 20 of them, so the odds of getting this great deal are
1 in 300. The companies that make it through are not average startups.Of course, there are other factors to consider in a VC deal.  It's
never just a straight trade of money for stock.  But if it were,
taking money from a top firm would generally be a bargain.You can use the same formula when giving stock to employees, but
it works in the other direction.  If i is the average outcome for
the company with the addition of some new person, then they're worth
n such that i = 1/(1 - n).  Which means n = (i - 1)/i.For example, suppose you're just two founders and you want to hire
an additional hacker who's so good you feel he'll increase the
average outcome of the whole company by 20%.  n = (1.2 - 1)/1.2 =
.167.  So you'll break even if you trade 16.7% of the company
for him.That doesn't mean 16.7% is the right amount of stock to give him.
Stock is not the only cost of hiring someone: there's usually salary
and overhead as well.  And if the company merely breaks even on the
deal, there's no reason to do it.I think to translate salary and overhead into stock you should
multiply the annual rate by about 1.5.  Most startups grow fast or
die; if you die you don't have to pay the guy, and if you grow fast
you'll be paying next year's salary out of next year's valuation,
which should be 3x this year's.  If your valuation grows 3x a year,
the total cost in stock of a new hire's salary and overhead is 1.5
years' cost at the present valuation.  [2]How much of an additional margin should the company need as the
"activation energy" for the deal?  Since this is in effect the
company's profit on a hire, the market will determine that: if
you're a hot opportunity, you can charge more.Let's run through an example.  Suppose the company wants to make a
"profit" of 50% on the new hire mentioned above.  So subtract a
third from 16.7% and we have 11.1% as his "retail" price.  Suppose
further that he's going to cost $60k a year in salary and overhead,
x 1.5 = $90k total.  If the company's valuation is $2 million, $90k
is 4.5%.  11.1% - 4.5% = an offer of 6.6%.Incidentally, notice how important it is for early employees to
take little salary.  It comes right out of stock that could otherwise
be given to them.Obviously there is a great deal of play in these numbers.  I'm not
claiming that stock grants can now be reduced to a formula.  Ultimately
you always have to guess.  But at least know what you're guessing.
If you choose a number based on your gut feel, or a table of typical
grant sizes supplied by a VC firm, understand what those are estimates
of.And more generally, when you make any decision involving equity,
run it through 1/(1 - n) to see if it makes sense.  You should
always feel richer after trading equity.  If the trade didn't
increase the value of your remaining shares enough to put you net
ahead, you wouldn't have (or shouldn't have) done it.Notes[1] This is why we
can't believe anyone would think Y Combinator was a bad deal.  Does
anyone really think we're so useless that in three months we can't
improve a startup's prospects by 7.5%?
[2] The obvious choice
for your present valuation is the post-money valuation of your last
funding round.  This probably undervalues the company, though,
because (a) unless your last round just happened, the company is
presumably worth more, and (b) the valuation of an early funding
round usually reflects some other contribution by the investors.Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, Paul Buchheit, 
Hutch Fishman, David Hornik, Paul Kedrosky, Jessica Livingston, Gary Sabot, and 
Joshua Schachter for reading drafts of this.
