July 2009The Segway hasn't delivered on its initial promise, to put it mildly.
There are several reasons why, but one is that people don't want
to be seen riding them. Someone riding a Segway looks like a dork.My friend Trevor Blackwell built 
his own Segway, 
which we called
the Segwell. He also built a one-wheeled version, 
the Eunicycle,
which looks exactly like a regular unicycle till you realize the
rider isn't pedaling.  He has ridden them both to downtown Mountain
View to get coffee.  When he rides the Eunicycle, people smile at
him.  But when he rides the Segwell, they shout abuse from their
cars: "Too lazy to walk, ya fuckin homo?"Why do Segways provoke this reaction?  The reason you look like a
dork riding a Segway is that you look smug.  You don't seem to
be working hard enough.Someone riding a motorcycle isn't working any harder. But because
he's sitting astride it, he seems to be making an effort.  When
you're riding a Segway you're just standing there.  And someone who's
being whisked along while seeming to do no work — someone in a sedan
chair, for example — can't help but look smug.Try this thought experiment and it becomes clear: imagine something
that worked like the Segway, but that you rode with one foot in
front of the other, like a skateboard.  That wouldn't seem nearly
as uncool.So there may be a way to capture more of the market Segway hoped
to reach: make a version that doesn't look so easy for the rider.
It would also be helpful if the styling was in the tradition of
skateboards or bicycles rather than medical devices.Curiously enough, what got Segway into this problem was that the
company was itself a kind of Segway.  It was too easy for them;
they were too successful raising money.  If they'd had to grow the
company gradually, by iterating through several versions they sold
to real users, they'd have learned pretty quickly that people looked
stupid riding them. Instead they had enough to work in secret.  They
had focus groups aplenty, I'm sure, but they didn't have the people
yelling insults out of cars.  So they never realized they were
zooming confidently down a blind alley.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


July 2009Now that the term "ramen profitable" has become widespread, I ought
to explain precisely what the idea entails.Ramen profitable means a startup makes just enough to pay the
founders' living expenses.  This is a different form of profitability
than startups have traditionally aimed for.  Traditional profitability
means a big bet is finally paying off, whereas the main importance
of ramen profitability is that it buys you time.
[1]In the past, a startup would usually become profitable only
after raising and spending quite a lot of money.  A company making
computer hardware might not become profitable for 5 years, during
which they spent $50 million.  But when they did
they might have revenues of $50 million a year.   This kind of
profitability means the startup has succeeded.Ramen profitability is the other extreme: a startup that becomes
profitable after 2 months, even though its revenues are only $3000
a month, because the only employees are a couple 25 year old founders
who can live on practically nothing.  Revenues of $3000 a month do
not mean the company has succeeded.
But it does share something with the one
that's profitable in the traditional way: they don't need to raise
money to survive.Ramen profitability is an unfamiliar idea to most people because
it only recently became feasible.  It's still not feasible for a
lot of startups; it would not be for most biotech startups, for
example; but it is for many software startups because they're now
so cheap.  For many, the only real cost is the founders'
living expenses.The main significance of this type of profitability is that you're
no longer at the mercy of investors.  If you're still losing money,
then eventually you'll either have to raise more
or shut down.  Once you're
ramen profitable this painful choice goes away.
You can still raise money, but you don't have to do it now.* * *The most obvious advantage of not needing money is that
you can get better terms.  If investors know you need money, they'll
sometimes take advantage of you.  Some may even deliberately
stall, because they know that as you run out of money you'll become
increasingly pliable.But there are also three less obvious advantages of ramen profitability.
One is that it makes you more attractive to investors.  If you're
already profitable, on however small a scale, it shows that (a) you
can get at least someone to pay you, (b) you're serious about
building things people want, and (c) you're disciplined enough to
keep expenses low.This is reassuring to investors, because you've addressed three of
their biggest worries.  It's common for them to fund companies that
have smart founders and a big market, and yet still fail.  When
these companies fail, it's usually because (a) people wouldn't pay
for what they made, e.g. because it was too hard to sell to them,
or the market wasn't ready yet, (b) the founders solved the wrong
problem, instead of paying attention to what users needed, or (c)
the company spent too much and burned through their funding before
they started to make money.  If you're ramen profitable, you're
already avoiding these mistakes.Another advantage of ramen profitability is that it's good for
morale.  A company
tends to feel rather theoretical when you first start it.  It's
legally a company, but you feel like you're lying when you call it
one.  When people start to pay you significant amounts, the company
starts to feel real.  And your own living expenses are the milestone
you feel most, because at that point the future flips state.  Now
survival is the default, instead of dying.A morale boost on that scale is very valuable in a startup, because
the moral weight of running a startup is what makes it hard.  Startups
are still very rare.  Why don't more people do it?  The financial
risk?  Plenty of 25 year olds save nothing anyway.  The long hours?
Plenty of people work just as long hours in regular jobs. What keeps
people from starting startups is the fear of having so much
responsibility.  And this is not an irrational fear: it really is
hard to bear.  Anything that takes some of that weight off you will 
greatly increase your chances of surviving.A startup that reaches ramen profitability may be more likely
to succeed than not.  Which is pretty exciting, considering the
bimodal distribution of outcomes in startups: you either fail or
make a lot of money.The fourth advantage of ramen profitability is the least obvious
but may be the most important.  If you don't need to raise money,
you don't have to interrupt working on the company to do it.Raising money is terribly distracting.  
You're lucky if your
productivity is a third of what it was before.  And it can last for
months.I didn't understand (or rather, remember) precisely why raising
money was so distracting till earlier this year.  I'd noticed that
startups we funded would usually grind to a halt when they switched
to raising money, but I didn't remember exactly why till YC raised
money itself.  We had a comparatively easy time of it; the first
people I asked said yes; but it took months to work out the
details, and during that time I got hardly any real work done.  Why?
Because I thought about it all the time.At any given time there tends to be one problem that's the most
urgent for a startup.  This is what you think about as you fall
asleep at night and when you take a shower in the morning.  And
when you start raising money, that becomes the problem you think
about.  You only take one shower in the morning, and if you're
thinking about investors during it, then you're not thinking about
the product.Whereas if you can choose when you raise money, you can pick a time
when you're not in the middle of something else, and you can probably
also insist that the round close fast.  You may even be able to
avoid having the round occupy your thoughts, if you don't care
whether it closes.* * *Ramen profitable means no more than the definition implies.  It
does not, for example, imply that you're "bootstrapping" the
startup—that you're never going to take money from investors.
Empirically that doesn't seem to work very well.  Few startups
succeed without taking investment.  Maybe as startups get cheaper
it will become more common.  On the other hand, the money is there,
waiting to be invested.  If startups need it less, they'll be able
to get it on better terms, which will make them more inclined to
take it.  That will tend to produce an equilibrium.
[2]Another thing ramen profitability doesn't imply is Joe Kraus's idea
that you should put your 
business model in beta when you put your
product in beta.  He believes you should get
people to pay you from the beginning.  I think that's too constraining.
Facebook didn't, and they've done better than most startups.  Making
money right away was not only unnecessary for them, but probably
would have been harmful.  I do think Joe's rule could be useful for
many startups, though.  When founders seem unfocused, I sometimes
suggest they try to get customers to pay them for something, in the
hope that this constraint will prod them into action.The difference between Joe's idea and ramen profitability is that
a ramen profitable company doesn't have to be making money the way
it ultimately will.  It just has to be making money.  The most
famous example is Google, which initially made money by licensing
search to sites like Yahoo.Is there a downside to ramen profitability?  Probably the biggest
danger is that it might turn you into a consulting firm.  Startups
have to be product companies, in the sense of making a single thing
that everyone uses.  The defining quality of startups is that they
grow fast, and consulting just can't scale the way a product can.
[3]
But it's pretty easy to make $3000 a month consulting; in
fact, that would be a low rate for contract programming.  So there
could be a temptation to slide into consulting, and telling
yourselves you're a ramen profitable startup, when in fact
you're not a startup at all.It's ok to do a little consulting-type work at first.  Startups
usually have to do something weird at first.  But remember
that ramen profitability is not the destination.  A startup's
destination is to grow really big; ramen profitability is a trick
for not dying en route.Notes[1]
The "ramen" in "ramen profitable" refers to instant ramen,
which is just about the cheapest food available.Please do not take the term literally.  Living on instant ramen
would be very unhealthy.  Rice and beans are a better source of
food.  Start by investing in a rice cooker, if you don't have one.Rice and Beans for 2n

  olive oil or butter
  n yellow onions
  other fresh vegetables; experiment
  3n cloves garlic
  n 12-oz cans white, kidney, or black beans
  n cubes Knorr beef or vegetable bouillon
  n teaspoons freshly ground black pepper
  3n teaspoons ground cumin
  n cups dry rice, preferably brown

Put rice in rice cooker. Add water as specified on rice package.
(Default: 2 cups water per cup of rice.) Turn on rice cooker and
forget about it.Chop onions and other vegetables and fry in oil, over fairly low
heat, till onions are glassy. Put in chopped garlic, pepper, cumin,
and a little more fat, and stir.  Keep heat low. Cook another 2 or
3 minutes, then add beans (don't drain the beans), and stir. Throw
in the bouillon cube(s), cover, and cook on lowish heat for at least
10 minutes more. Stir vigilantly to avoid sticking.If you want to save money, buy beans in giant cans from discount
stores.  Spices are also much cheaper when bought in bulk.
If there's an Indian grocery store near you, they'll have big 
bags of cumin for the same price as the little jars in supermarkets.[2]
There's a good chance that a shift in power from investors
to founders would actually increase the size of the venture business.
I think investors currently err too far on the side of being harsh
to founders.  If they were forced to stop, the whole venture business
would work better, and you might see something like the increase
in trade you always see when restrictive laws are removed.Investors
are one of the biggest sources of pain for founders; if they stopped
causing so much pain, it would be better to be a founder; and if
it were better to be a founder, more people would do it.[3]
It's conceivable that a startup could grow big by transforming
consulting into a form that would scale.  But if they did that
they'd really be a product company.Thanks to Jessica Livingston for reading drafts of this.Japanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2009Recently I realized I'd been holding two ideas in my head that would explode if combined.The first is that startups may represent a new economic phase, on the scale of the Industrial Revolution. I'm not sure of this, but there seems a decent chance it's true.  People are dramatically more 
productive as founders or early employees of startups—imagine how much less Larry and Sergey would have achieved if they'd gone to work for a big company—and that scale of improvement can change social customs.The second idea is that startups are a type of business that flourishes in certain places that specialize in it—that Silicon Valley specializes in startups in the same way Los Angeles specializes in movies, or New York in finance. [1]What if both are true?  What if startups are both a new economic phase and also a type of business that only flourishes in certain centers?If so, this revolution is going to be particularly revolutionary. All previous revolutions have spread.  Agriculture, cities, and industrialization all spread widely. If startups end up being like the movie business, with just a handful of centers and one dominant one, that's going to have novel consequences.There are already signs that startups may not spread particularly well.  The spread of startups seems to be proceeding slower than the spread of the Industrial Revolution, despite the fact that communication is so much faster now.Within a few decades of the founding of Boulton & Watt there were steam engines scattered over northern Europe and North America.  Industrialization didn't spread much beyond those regions for a while. It only spread to places where there was a strong middle class—countries where a private citizen could make a fortune without having it confiscated. Otherwise it wasn't worth investing in factories.  But in a country with a strong middle class it was easy for industrial techniques to take root.  An individual mine or factory owner could decide to install a steam engine, and within a few years he could probably find someone local to make him one.  So steam engines spread fast.  And they spread widely, because the locations of mines and factories were determined by features like rivers, harbors, and sources of raw materials. 
 [2]Startups don't seem to spread so well, partly because they're more a social than a technical phenomenon, and partly because they're not tied to geography.  An individual European manufacturer could import industrial techniques and they'd work fine.  This doesn't seem to work so well with startups: you need a community of expertise, as you do in the movie business.  [3]
 Plus there aren't the same forces driving startups to spread.  Once railroads or electric power grids were invented, every region had to have them.  An area without railroads or power was a rich potential market.  But this isn't true with startups.  There's no need for a Microsoft of France or Google of Germany.Governments may decide they want to encourage startups locally, but government policy can't call them into being the way a genuine need could.How will this all play out?  If I had to predict now, I'd say that startups will spread, but very slowly, because their spread will be driven not by government policies (which won't work) or by market need (which doesn't exist) but, to the extent that it happens at all, by the same random factors that have caused startup culture to spread thus far.  And such random factors will increasingly be outweighed by the pull of existing startup hubs.Silicon Valley is where it is because William Shockley wanted to move back to Palo Alto, where he grew up, and the experts he lured west to work with him liked it so much they stayed.  Seattle owes much of its position as a tech center to the same cause: Gates and Allen wanted to move home.  Otherwise Albuquerque might have Seattle's place in the rankings.  Boston is a tech center because it's the intellectual capital of the US and probably the world.  And if Battery Ventures hadn't turned down Facebook, Boston would be significantly bigger now on the startup radar screen.But of course it's not a coincidence that Facebook got funded in the Valley and not Boston.  There are more and bolder investors in Silicon Valley than in Boston, and even undergrads know it.Boston's case illustrates the difficulty you'd have establishing a new startup hub this late in the game.  If you wanted to create a startup hub by reproducing the way existing ones happened, the 
way to do it would be to establish a first-rate research university in a place so nice that rich people wanted to live there.  Then the town would be hospitable to both groups you need: both founders and investors.  That's the combination that yielded Silicon Valley.  But Silicon Valley didn't have Silicon Valley to compete with.  If you tried now to create a startup hub by planting a great university in a nice place, it would have a harder time getting started, because many of the best startups it produced would be sucked away to existing startup hubs.Recently I suggested a potential shortcut: 
pay startups to move.  Once you had enough good startups in one place, it would create a self-sustaining chain reaction.  Founders would start to move there without being paid, because that was where their peers were, and investors would appear too, because that was where the deals were.In practice I doubt any government would have the balls to try this, or the brains to do it right.  I didn't mean it as a practical suggestion, but more as an exploration of the lower bound of what it would take to create a startup hub deliberately.The most likely scenario is (1) that no government will successfully establish a startup hub, and (2) that the spread of startup culture will thus be driven by the random factors that have driven it so far, but (3) that these factors will be increasingly outweighed by the pull of existing startup hubs.  Result: this revolution, if it is one, will be unusually localized.Notes[1]
There are two very different types of startup: one kind that evolves naturally, and one kind that's called into being to "commercialize" a scientific discovery.  Most computer/software startups are now the first type, and most pharmaceutical startups the second.  When I talk about startups in this essay, I mean type I startups.  There is no difficulty making type II startups spread: all you have to do is fund medical research labs; commercializing whatever new discoveries the boffins throw off is as straightforward as building a new airport.  Type II startups neither require nor produce startup culture. But that means having type II startups won't get you type I startups.  Philadelphia is a case in point: lots of type II startups, but hardly any type I.Incidentally, Google may appear to be an instance of a type II startup, but it wasn't.  Google is not pagerank commercialized.  They could have used another algorithm and everything would have turned out the same.  What made Google Google is that they cared about doing search well at a critical point in the evolution of the web.[2]
 Watt didn't invent the steam engine.  His critical invention was a refinement that made steam engines dramatically more efficient: the separate condenser.  But that oversimplifies his role.  He had such a different attitude to the problem and approached it with such energy that he transformed the field.  Perhaps the most accurate way to put it would be to say that Watt reinvented the steam engine.[3]
The biggest counterexample here is Skype.  If you're doing
something that would get shut down in the US, it becomes an 
advantage to be located elsewhere.  That's why Kazaa took
the place of Napster.  And the expertise and connections the 
founders gained from running Kazaa helped ensure the success
of Skype.Thanks to Patrick Collison, Jessica Livingston, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2009Om Malik is the most recent of many people
to ask why Twitter is such a big deal.The reason is that it's a new messaging 
protocol, where you don't specify the recipients.
New protocols are rare.  Or more precisely, new
protocols that take off are.
There are only a handful of commonly used ones: TCP/IP 
(the Internet), SMTP (email), HTTP (the web), and so on.  So any
new protocol is a big deal.  But Twitter is a protocol owned
by a private company.  That's even rarer.Curiously, the fact that the founders of Twitter 
have been slow to monetize it may in the long run
prove to be an advantage.  Because they haven't tried
to control it too much, Twitter feels to everyone like
previous protocols.  One forgets it's owned by a
private company.  That must have made it easier for
Twitter to spread.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2009I usually avoid politics, but since we now seem to have an administration that's open to suggestions, I'm going to risk making one.  The single biggest thing the government could do to increase the number of startups in this country is a policy that would cost nothing: establish a new class of visa for startup founders.The biggest constraint on the number of new startups that get created in the US is not tax policy or employment law or even Sarbanes-Oxley.  It's that we won't let the people who want to start them into the country.Letting just 10,000 startup founders into the country each year could have a visible effect on the economy.  If we assume 4 people per startup, which is probably an overestimate, that's 2500 new companies.  Each year.  They wouldn't all grow as big as Google, but out of 2500 some would come close.By definition these 10,000 founders wouldn't be taking jobs from Americans: it could be part of the terms of the visa that they couldn't work for existing companies, only new ones they'd founded.  In fact they'd cause there to be 
more jobs for Americans, because the companies they started would hire more employees as they grew.The tricky part might seem to be how one defined a startup. But that could be solved quite easily: let the market decide.  Startup investors work hard to find the best startups.  The government could not do better than to piggyback on their expertise, and use investment by recognized startup investors as the test of whether a company was a real startup.How would the government decide who's a startup investor?  The same way they decide what counts as a university for student visas. We'll establish our own accreditation procedure. We know who one another are.10,000 people is a drop in the bucket by immigration standards, but would represent a huge increase in the pool of startup founders.  I think this would have such a visible effect on the economy that it would make the legislator who introduced the bill famous.  The only way to know for sure would be to try it, and that would cost practically nothing.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Paul Buchheit, Jeff Clavier, David Hornik, Jessica Livingston, Greg Mcadoo, Aydin Senkut, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of this.Related:The United States of Entrepreneurs About Half of VC-Backed Company Founders are Immigrants

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2009Inc recently asked me who I thought were the 5 most
interesting startup founders of the last 30 years.  How do
you decide who's the most interesting?  The best test seemed
to be influence: who are the 5
who've influenced me most?  Who do I use as examples when I'm
talking to companies we fund?  Who do I find myself quoting?1. Steve JobsI'd guess Steve is the most influential founder not just for me but
for most people you could ask.  A lot of startup culture is Apple
culture.  He was the original young founder.  And while the concept
of "insanely great" already existed in the arts, it was a novel
idea to introduce into a company in the 1980s.More remarkable still, he's stayed interesting for 30 years.  People
await new Apple products the way they'd await new books by a popular
novelist.  Steve may not literally design them, but they wouldn't
happen if he weren't CEO.Steve is clever and driven, but so are a lot of people in the Valley.
What makes him unique is his 
sense of 
design.  Before him, most
companies treated design as a frivolous extra.  Apple's competitors
now know better.2. TJ RodgersTJ Rodgers isn't as famous as Steve Jobs, but he may be the best
writer among Silicon Valley CEOs.  I've probably learned more from
him about the startup way of thinking than from anyone else.  Not
so much from specific things he's written as by reconstructing the
mind that produced them: brutally candid; aggressively garbage-collecting
outdated ideas; and yet driven by pragmatism rather than ideology.The first essay of his that I read was so electrifying that I
remember exactly where I was at the time.  It was 
High
Technology Innovation: Free Markets or Government Subsidies? and
I was downstairs in the Harvard Square T Station.  It felt as if
someone had flipped on a light switch inside my head.3. Larry & SergeyI'm sorry to treat Larry and Sergey as one person.  I've always
thought that was unfair to them.  But it does seem as if Google was a
collaboration.Before Google, companies in Silicon Valley already knew it was
important to have the best hackers.  So they claimed, at least.
But Google pushed this idea further than anyone had before.  Their
hypothesis seems to have been that, in the initial stages at least,
all you need is good hackers: if you hire all the smartest people
and put them to work on a problem where their success can be measured,
you win.  All the other stuff—which includes all the stuff that
business schools think business consists of—you can figure out
along the way.  The results won't be perfect, but they'll be optimal.
If this was their hypothesis, it's now been verified experimentally.4. Paul BuchheitFew know this, but one person, Paul Buchheit, is responsible for
three of the best things Google has done.  He was the original
author of GMail, which is the most impressive thing Google has after
search.  He also wrote the first prototype of AdSense, and was the
author of Google's mantra "Don't be evil."PB made a point in a talk once that I now mention to every startup
we fund: that it's better, initially, to make a small number of
users really love you than a large number kind of like you.   If I
could tell startups only 
ten sentences, 
this would be one of them.Now he's cofounder of a startup called Friendfeed.  It's only a
year old, but already everyone in the Valley is watching them.
Someone responsible for three of the biggest ideas at Google is
going to come up with more.5. Sam AltmanI was told I shouldn't mention founders of YC-funded companies in
this list.   But Sam Altman can't be stopped by such flimsy rules.
If he wants to be on this list, he's going to be.Honestly, Sam is, along with Steve Jobs, the founder I refer to
most when I'm advising startups.  On questions of design, I ask
"What would Steve do?" but on questions of strategy or ambition I
ask "What would Sama do?"What I learned from meeting Sama is that the doctrine of the elect
applies to startups.  It applies way less than most people think:
startup investing does not consist of trying to pick winners the
way you might in a horse race.  But there are a few people with
such force of will that they're going to get whatever they want.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


March 2009A couple days ago I finally got being a good startup founder down
to two words:  relentlessly resourceful.Till then the best I'd managed was to get the opposite quality down
to one: hapless.  Most dictionaries say hapless means unlucky.  But
the dictionaries are not doing a very good job.  A team that outplays
its opponents but loses because of a bad decision by the referee
could be called unlucky, but not hapless.  Hapless implies passivity.
To be hapless is to be battered by circumstances — to let the world
have its way with you, instead of having your way with the world.

[1]Unfortunately there's no antonym of hapless, which makes it difficult
to tell founders what to aim for.  "Don't be hapless" is not much
of a rallying cry.It's not hard to express the quality we're looking for in metaphors.
The best is probably a running back.  A good running back is not
merely determined, but flexible as well.  They want to get downfield,
but they adapt their plans on the fly.Unfortunately this is just a metaphor, and not a useful one to most
people outside the US.   "Be like a running back" is no better than
"Don't be hapless."But finally I've figured out how to express this quality directly.
I was writing a talk for 
investors, and I had to explain what to
look for in founders.  What would someone who was the opposite of
hapless be like?  They'd be relentlessly resourceful.  Not merely
relentless.  That's not enough to make things go your way except
in a few mostly uninteresting domains.  In any interesting domain,
the difficulties will be novel.  Which means you can't simply plow
through them, because you don't know initially how hard they are;
you don't know whether you're about to plow through a block of foam
or granite.  So you have to be resourceful. You have to keep
trying new things.Be relentlessly resourceful.That sounds right, but is it simply a description
of how to be successful in general?  I don't think so.  This isn't
the recipe for success in writing or painting, for example.  In
that kind of work the recipe is more to be actively curious.
Resourceful implies the obstacles are external, which they generally
are in startups. But in writing and painting they're mostly internal;
the obstacle is your own obtuseness.
[2]There probably are other fields where "relentlessly resourceful"
is the recipe for success.  But though other fields may share it,
I think this is the best short description we'll find of what makes
a good startup founder.  I doubt it could be made more precise.Now that we know what we're looking for, that leads to other
questions.  For example, can this quality be taught?  After four
years of trying to teach it to people, I'd say that yes, surprisingly
often it can.  Not to everyone, but to many people. 
[3]
Some
people are just constitutionally passive, but others have a latent
ability to be relentlessly resourceful that only needs to be brought
out.This is particularly true of young people who have till now always
been under the thumb of some kind of authority.  Being relentlessly
resourceful is definitely not the recipe for success in big companies,
or in most schools.  I don't even want to think what the recipe is
in big companies, but it is certainly longer and messier, involving
some combination of resourcefulness, obedience, and building
alliances.Identifying this quality also brings us closer to answering a
question people often wonder about: how many startups there could
be.  There is not, as some people seem to think, any economic upper
bound on this number.  There's no reason to believe there is any
limit on the amount of newly created wealth consumers can absorb,
any more than there is a limit on the number of theorems that can
be proven.  So probably the limiting factor on the number of startups
is the pool of potential founders.  Some people would make good
founders, and others wouldn't.  And now that we can say what makes
a good founder, we know how to put an upper bound on the size of
the pool.This test is also useful to individuals.  If you want to know whether
you're the right sort of person to start a startup, ask yourself
whether you're relentlessly resourceful.  And if you want to know
whether to recruit someone as a cofounder, ask if they are.You can even use it tactically.  If I were running a startup, this
would be the phrase I'd tape to the mirror.  "Make something people
want" is the destination, but "Be relentlessly resourceful" is how
you get there.Notes[1]
I think the reason the dictionaries are wrong is that the
meaning of the word has shifted.  No one writing a dictionary from
scratch today would say that hapless meant unlucky.  But a couple
hundred years ago they might have.  People were more at the mercy
of circumstances in the past, and as a result a lot of the words
we use for good and bad outcomes have origins in words about luck.When I was living in Italy, I was once trying to tell someone
that I hadn't had much success in doing something, but I couldn't
think of the Italian word for success.  I spent some time trying
to describe the word I meant.  Finally she said "Ah! Fortuna!"[2]
There are aspects of startups where the recipe is to be
actively curious.  There can be times when what you're doing is
almost pure discovery.  Unfortunately these times are a small
proportion of the whole.  On the other hand, they are in research
too.[3]
I'd almost say to most people, but I realize (a) I have no
idea what most people are like, and (b) I'm pathologically optimistic
about people's ability to change.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell and Jessica Livingston for reading drafts
of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

March 2009(This essay is derived from a talk at AngelConf.)When we sold our startup in 1998 I thought one day I'd do some angel
investing.  Seven years later I still hadn't started.  I put it off
because it seemed mysterious and complicated.   It turns out to be 
easier than I expected, and also more interesting.The part I thought was hard, the mechanics of investing, really
isn't. You give a startup money and they give you stock.  You'll
probably get either preferred stock, which means stock with extra
rights like getting your money back first in a sale, or convertible
debt, which means (on paper) you're lending the company money, and
the debt converts to stock at the next sufficiently big funding
round. 
[1]There are sometimes minor tactical advantages to using one or the
other.  The paperwork for convertible debt is simpler.  But really
it doesn't matter much which you use.  Don't spend much time worrying
about the details of deal terms, especially when you first start
angel investing.  That's not how you win at this game.  When you
hear people talking about a successful angel investor, they're not
saying "He got a 4x liquidation preference." They're saying "He
invested in Google."That's how you win: by investing in the right startups.  That is
so much more important than anything else that I worry I'm misleading
you by even talking about other things.MechanicsAngel investors often syndicate deals, which means they join together
to invest on the same terms.  In a syndicate there is usually a
"lead" investor who negotiates the terms with the startup.  But not
always: sometimes the startup cobbles together a syndicate of
investors who approach them independently, and the startup's lawyer
supplies the paperwork.The easiest way to get started in angel investing is to find a
friend who already does it, and try to get included in his syndicates.
Then all you have to do is write checks.Don't feel like you have to join a syndicate, though.  It's not that
hard to do it yourself.  You can just use the standard 
series AA
documents Wilson Sonsini and Y Combinator published online.
You should of course have your lawyer review everything.  Both you
and the startup should have lawyers.  But the lawyers don't have
to create the agreement from scratch.  
[2]
When you negotiate terms with a startup, there are two numbers you
care about: how much money you're putting in, and the valuation of
the company.  The valuation determines how much stock you get.  If
you put $50,000 into a company at a pre-money valuation of $1
million, then the post-money valuation is $1.05 million, and you
get .05/1.05, or 4.76% of the company's stock.If the company raises more money later, the new investor will take
a chunk of the company away from all the existing shareholders just
as you did.  If in the next round they sell 10% of the company to
a new investor, your 4.76% will be reduced to 4.28%.That's ok.  Dilution is normal.  What saves you from being mistreated
in future rounds, usually, is that you're in the same boat as the
founders.  They can't dilute you without diluting themselves just
as much.  And they won't dilute themselves unless they end up 
net ahead.  So in theory, each further 
round of investment leaves you
with a smaller share of an even more valuable company, till after
several more rounds you end up with .5% of the company at the point
where it IPOs, and you are very happy because your $50,000 has
become $5 million. 
[3]The agreement by which you invest should have provisions that 
let you contribute to
future rounds to maintain your percentage.  So it's your choice
whether you get diluted.  
[4]
If the company does really well,
you eventually will, because eventually the valuations will get so
high it's not worth it for you.How much does an angel invest?  That varies enormously, from $10,000
to hundreds of thousands or in rare cases even millions.  The upper
bound is obviously the total amount the founders want to raise.
The lower bound is 5-10% of the total or $10,000, whichever
is greater.  A typical angel round these days might be $150,000
raised from 5 people.Valuations don't vary as much.  For angel rounds it's rare to see
a valuation lower than half a million or higher than 4 or 5 million.
4 million is starting to be VC territory.How do you decide what valuation to offer?  If you're part of a
round led by someone else, that problem is solved for you.  But
what if you're investing by yourself?  There's no real answer.
There is no rational way to value an early stage startup.  The
valuation reflects nothing more than the strength of the company's
bargaining position.  If they really want you, either because they
desperately need money, or you're someone who can help them a lot,
they'll let you invest at a low valuation.  If they don't need you,
it will be higher.  So guess.  The startup may not have any more
idea what the number should be than you do. 
[5]Ultimately it doesn't matter much.  When angels make a lot of money
from a deal, it's not because they invested at a valuation of $1.5
million instead of $3 million.  It's because the company was really
successful.I can't emphasize that too much.  Don't get hung up on mechanics
or deal terms.  What you should spend your time thinking about is
whether the company is good.(Similarly, founders also should not get hung up on deal
terms, but should spend their time thinking about how to make the
company good.)There's a second less obvious component of an angel investment: how
much you're expected to help the startup.  Like the amount you
invest, this can vary a lot.  You don't have to do anything if you
don't want to; you could simply be a source of money.  Or you can
become a de facto employee of the company.  Just make sure that you
and the startup agree in advance about roughly how much you'll do
for them.Really hot companies sometimes have high standards for angels.  The
ones everyone wants to invest in practically audition investors,
and only take money from people who are famous and/or will work
hard for them.  But don't feel like you have to put in a lot of
time or you won't get to invest in any good startups.  There is a
surprising lack of correlation between how hot a deal a startup is
and how well it ends up doing.  Lots of hot startups will end up
failing, and lots of startups no one likes will end up succeeding.
And the latter are so desperate for money that they'll take it from
anyone at a low valuation. 
[6]Picking WinnersIt would be nice to be able to pick those out, wouldn't it?  The
part of angel investing that has most effect on your returns, picking
the right companies, is also the hardest.  So you should practically
ignore (or more precisely, archive, in the Gmail sense) everything
I've told you so far.  You may need to refer to it at some point,
but it is not the central issue.The central issue is picking the right startups.  What "Make something
people want" is for startups, "Pick the right startups" is for
investors.  Combined they yield "Pick the startups that will make
something people want."How do you do that?  It's not as simple as picking startups that
are already making something wildly popular.  By then it's
too late for angels.  VCs will already be onto them.  As an angel,
you have to pick startups before they've got a hit—either
because they've made something great but users don't realize it
yet, like Google early on, or because they're still an iteration
or two away from the big hit, like Paypal when they were making
software for transferring money between PDAs.To be a good angel investor, you have to be a good judge of potential.
That's what it comes down to.  VCs can be fast followers.  Most of
them don't try to predict what will win.  They just try to notice
quickly when something already is winning.  But angels have to be
able to predict.  
[7]One interesting consequence of this fact is that there are a lot
of people out there who have never even made an angel investment
and yet are already better angel investors than they realize.
Someone who doesn't know the first thing about the mechanics of
venture funding but knows what a successful startup founder looks
like is actually far ahead of someone who knows termsheets inside
out, but thinks 
"hacker" means someone who breaks into computers.
If you can recognize good startup founders by empathizing with
them—if you both resonate at the same frequency—then
you may already be a better startup picker than the median professional
VC.  
[8]Paul Buchheit, for example, started angel investing about a year
after me, and he was pretty much immediately as good as me at picking
startups.  My extra year of experience was rounding error compared
to our ability to empathize with founders.What makes a good founder?  If there were a word that meant the
opposite of hapless, that would be the one.  Bad founders seem
hapless.  They may be smart, or not, but somehow events overwhelm
them and they get discouraged and give up.  Good founders make
things happen the way they want.  Which is not to say they force
things to happen in a predefined way.  Good founders have a healthy
respect for reality.  But they are relentlessly resourceful.  That's
the closest I can get to the opposite of hapless.  You want to fund
people who are relentlessly resourceful.Notice we started out talking about things, and now we're talking
about people.  There is an ongoing debate between investors which
is more important, the people, or the idea—or more precisely,
the market. Some, like Ron Conway, say it's the people—that
the idea will change, but the people are the foundation of the
company.  Whereas Marc Andreessen says he'd back ok founders in a
hot market over great founders in a bad one.  
[9]These two positions are not so far apart as they seem, because good
people find good markets.  Bill Gates would probably have ended up
pretty rich even if IBM hadn't happened to drop the PC standard in
his lap.I've thought a lot about the disagreement between the investors who
prefer to bet on people and those who prefer to bet on markets.
It's kind of surprising that it even exists.  You'd expect opinions
to have converged more.But I think I've figured out what's going on.  The three most
prominent people I know who favor markets are Marc, Jawed Karim,
and Joe Kraus.  And all three of them, in their own startups,
basically flew into a thermal: they hit a market growing so fast
that it was all they could do to keep up with it.  That kind of
experience is hard to ignore.  Plus I think they underestimate
themselves: they think back to how easy it felt to ride that huge
thermal upward, and they think "anyone could have done it."  But
that isn't true; they are not ordinary people.So as an angel investor I think you want to go with Ron Conway and
bet on people.  Thermals happen, yes, but no one can predict
them—not even the founders, and certainly not you as an
investor.  And only good people can ride the thermals if they hit
them anyway.Deal FlowOf course the question of how to choose startups presumes you
have startups to choose between.  How do you find them?  This is
yet another problem that gets solved for you by syndicates.  If you
tag along on a friend's investments, you don't have to find startups.The problem is not finding startups, exactly, but finding a stream
of reasonably high quality ones.  The traditional way to do this
is through contacts.  If you're friends with a lot of investors and
founders, they'll send deals your way.  The Valley basically runs
on referrals.  And once you start to become known as reliable,
useful investor, people will refer lots of deals to you.  I certainly
will.There's also a newer way to find startups, which is to come to
events like Y Combinator's Demo Day, where a batch of newly created
startups presents to investors all at once.   We have two Demo Days
a year, one in March and one in August.  These are basically mass
referrals.But events like Demo Day only account for a fraction of matches
between startups and investors.  The personal referral is still the
most common route.  So if you want to hear about new startups, the
best way to do it is to get lots of referrals.The best way to get lots of referrals is to invest in startups.  No
matter how smart and nice you seem, insiders will be reluctant to
send you referrals until you've proven yourself by doing a couple
investments.  Some smart, nice guys turn out to be flaky,
high-maintenance investors. But once you prove yourself as a good
investor, the deal flow, as they call it, will increase rapidly in
both quality and quantity.  At the extreme, for someone like Ron
Conway, it is basically identical with the deal flow of the whole
Valley.So if you want to invest seriously, the way to get started is to
bootstrap yourself off your existing connections, be a good investor
in the startups you meet that way, and eventually you'll start a
chain reaction.  Good investors are rare, even in Silicon Valley.
There probably aren't more than a couple hundred serious angels in the whole
Valley, and yet they're probably the single most important ingredient
in making the Valley what it is.  Angels are the limiting reagent
in startup formation.If there are only a couple hundred serious angels in the Valley, 
then by deciding to become one you could single-handedly make the pipeline
for startups in Silicon Valley significantly wider.  That is kind
of mind-blowing.Being GoodHow do you be a good angel investor?  The first thing you need is
to be decisive.  When we talk to founders about good and bad
investors, one of the ways we describe the good ones is to say "he
writes checks." That doesn't mean the investor says yes to everyone.
Far from it.  It means he makes up his mind quickly,
and follows through.  You may be thinking, how hard could that be?
You'll see when you try it.  It follows from the nature of angel
investing that the decisions are hard.  You have to guess early,
at the stage when the most promising ideas still seem counterintuitive,
because if they were obviously good, VCs would already have funded
them.Suppose it's 1998.  You come across a startup founded by a couple
grad students.  They say they're going to work on Internet search.
There are already a bunch of big public companies doing search.
How can these grad students possibly compete with them?  And does
search even matter anyway?  All the search engines are trying to
get people to start calling them "portals" instead.  Why would you
want to invest in a startup run by a couple of nobodies who are
trying to compete with large, aggressive companies in an area they
themselves have declared passe?  And yet the grad students seem
pretty smart.  What do you do?There's a hack for being decisive when you're inexperienced: ratchet
down the size of your investment till it's an amount you wouldn't
care too much about losing.  For every rich person (you probably
shouldn't try angel investing unless you think of yourself as rich)
there's some amount that would be painless, though annoying, to
lose.  Till you feel comfortable investing, don't invest more than
that per startup.For example, if you have $5 million in investable assets, it would
probably be painless (though annoying) to lose $15,000.  That's
less than .3% of your net worth.  So start by making 3 or 4 $15,000
investments.  Nothing will teach you about angel investing like
experience.  Treat the first few as an educational expense.  $60,000
is less than a lot of graduate programs.  Plus you get equity.What's really uncool is to be strategically indecisive: to string
founders along while trying to gather more information about the
startup's trajectory. 
[10]
 There's always a temptation to do that,
because you just have so little to go on, but you have to consciously
resist it.  In the long term it's to your advantage to be good.The other component of being a good angel investor is simply to be
a good person.  Angel investing is not a business where you make
money by screwing people over.  Startups create wealth, and
creating wealth is not a zero sum game.  No one has to lose for you
to win.  In fact, if you mistreat the founders you invest in, they'll
just get demoralized and the company will do worse.  Plus your
referrals will dry up.  So I recommend being good.The most successful angel investors I know are all basically good
people.  Once they invest in a company, all they want to do is help
it.  And they'll help people they haven't invested in too.  When
they do favors they don't seem to keep track of them.  It's too
much overhead.  They just try to help everyone, and assume good
things will flow back to them somehow. Empirically that seems to
work.Notes[1]
Convertible debt can be either capped at a particular valuation,
or can be done at a discount to whatever the valuation turns out
to be when it converts.  E.g. convertible debt at a discount of 30%
means when it converts you get stock as if you'd invested at a 30%
lower valuation.  That can be useful in cases where you can't or
don't want to figure out what the valuation should be.  You leave
it to the next investor.  On the other hand, a lot of investors
want to know exactly what they're getting, so they will only do
convertible debt with a cap.[2]
The expensive part of creating an agreement from scratch is
not writing the agreement, but bickering at several hundred
dollars an hour over the details.  That's why the series AA paperwork
aims at a middle ground.  You can just start from the compromise
you'd have reached after lots of back and forth.When you fund a startup, both your lawyers should be specialists
in startups.  Do not use ordinary corporate lawyers for this.  Their
inexperience makes them overbuild: they'll create huge, overcomplicated
agreements, and spend hours arguing over irrelevant things.In the Valley, the top startup law firms are Wilson Sonsini, Orrick,
Fenwick & West, Gunderson Dettmer, and Cooley Godward.  In Boston
the best are Goodwin Procter, Wilmer Hale, and Foley Hoag.[3]
Your mileage may vary.[4]
These anti-dilution provisions also protect you against
tricks like a later investor trying to steal the company by doing
another round that values the company at $1.  If you have a competent
startup lawyer handle the deal for you, you should be protected
against such tricks initially.  But it could become a problem later.
If a big VC firm wants to invest in the startup after you, they may
try to make you take out your anti-dilution protections.  And if
they do the startup will be pressuring you to agree.  They'll tell
you that if you don't, you're going to kill their deal with the VC.
I recommend you solve this problem by having a gentlemen's agreement
with the founders: agree with them in advance that you're not going
to give up your anti-dilution protections.  Then it's up to them
to tell VCs early on.The reason you don't want to give them up is the following scenario.
The VCs recapitalize the company, meaning they give it additional
funding at a pre-money valuation of zero.  This wipes out the
existing shareholders, including both you and the founders.  They
then grant the founders lots of options, because they need them to
stay around, but you get nothing.Obviously this is not a nice thing to do.  It doesn't happen often.
Brand-name VCs wouldn't recapitalize a company just to steal a few
percent from an angel.  But there's a continuum here.  A less
upstanding, lower-tier VC might be tempted to do it to steal a big
chunk of stock.I'm not saying you should always absolutely refuse to give up your
anti-dilution protections.  Everything is a negotiation.  If you're
part of a powerful syndicate, you might be able to give up legal
protections and rely on social ones.  If you invest in a deal led
by a big angel like Ron Conway, for example, you're pretty well
protected against being mistreated, because any VC would think twice
before crossing him.  This kind of protection is one of the reasons
angels like to invest in syndicates.[5]
Don't invest so much, or at such a low valuation, that you
end up with an excessively large share of a startup, unless you're
sure your money will be the last they ever need.  Later stage
investors won't invest in a company if the founders don't have
enough equity left to motivate them.  I talked to a VC recently who
said he'd met with a company he really liked, but he turned
them down because investors already owned more than half of it.
Those investors probably thought they'd been pretty clever by getting
such a large chunk of this desirable company, but in fact they were
shooting themselves in the foot.[6]
At any given time I know of at least 3 or 4 YC alumni who I
believe will be big successes but who are running on vapor,
financially, because investors don't yet get what they're doing.
(And no, unfortunately, I can't tell you who they are.  I can't
refer a startup to an investor I don't know.)[7]
There are some VCs who can predict instead of reacting.  Not
surprisingly, these are the most successful ones.[8]
It's somewhat sneaky of me to put it this way, because the
median VC loses money.  That's one of the most surprising things
I've learned about VC while working on Y Combinator.  Only a fraction
of VCs even have positive returns.  The rest exist to satisfy demand
among fund managers for venture capital as an asset class.  Learning
this explained a lot about some of the VCs I encountered when we
were working on Viaweb.[9]
VCs also generally say they prefer great markets to great
people.  But what they're really saying is they want both.  They're
so selective that they only even consider great people.  So when
they say they care above all about big markets, they mean that's
how they choose between great people.[10]
Founders rightly dislike the sort of investor who says he's
interested in investing but doesn't want to lead.  There are
circumstances where this is an acceptable excuse, but more often
than not what it means is "No, but if you turn out to be a hot deal,
I want to be able to claim retroactively I said yes."If you like a startup enough to invest in it, then invest in it.
Just use the standard series 
AA terms and write them a check.Thanks to Sam Altman, Paul Buchheit, Jessica Livingston,
Robert Morris, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of this.Comment on this essay.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

March 2009About twenty years ago people noticed computers and TV were on a
collision course and started to speculate about what they'd produce
when they converged.  We now know the answer: computers.  It's clear
now that even by using the word "convergence" we were giving TV too
much credit.  This won't be convergence so much as replacement.
People may still watch things they call "TV shows," but they'll
watch them mostly on computers.What decided the contest for computers?  Four forces, three of which
one could have predicted, and one that would have been harder to.One predictable cause of victory is that the Internet is an open
platform.  Anyone can build whatever they want on it, and the market
picks the winners.  So innovation happens at hacker speeds instead
of big company speeds.The second is Moore's Law, which has worked its usual magic on
Internet bandwidth. 
[1]The third reason computers won is piracy. Users prefer it 
not just because it's free, but because it's
more convenient.  Bittorrent and YouTube have already trained a new
generation of viewers that the place to watch shows is on a computer
screen.
[2]The somewhat more surprising force was one specific type of innovation:
social applications.  The average teenage kid has a pretty much
infinite capacity for talking to their friends.  But they can't
physically be with them all the time.  When I was in high school
the solution was the telephone.  Now it's social networks, multiplayer
games, and various messaging applications.  The way you reach them
all is through a computer.
[3]
Which means every teenage kid (a)
wants a computer with an Internet connection, (b) has an incentive
to figure out how to use it, and (c) spends countless hours in front
of it.This was the most powerful force of all.  This was what made everyone
want computers.  Nerds got computers because they liked them.  Then
gamers got them to play games on.  But it was connecting to other
people that got everyone else: that's what made even grandmas and
14 year old girls want computers.
After decades of running an IV drip right into their audience,
people in the entertainment business had understandably come to
think of them as rather passive.  They thought they'd be able to
dictate the way shows reached audiences.  But they underestimated
the force of their desire to connect with one another.Facebook killed TV.  That is wildly oversimplified, of course, but
probably as close to the truth as you can get in three words.___The TV networks already seem, grudgingly, to see where things are
going, and have responded by putting their stuff, grudgingly, online.
But they're still dragging their heels.  They still seem to wish
people would watch shows on TV instead, just as newspapers that put
their stories online still seem to wish people would wait till the
next morning and read them printed on paper.  They should both just
face the fact that the Internet is the primary medium.They'd be in a better position if they'd done that earlier.  When
a new medium arises that's powerful enough to make incumbents
nervous, then it's probably powerful enough to win, and the best
thing they can do is jump in immediately.Whether they like it or not, big changes are coming, because the
Internet dissolves the two cornerstones of broadcast media:
synchronicity and locality.  On the Internet, you don't have to
send everyone the same signal, and you don't have to send it to
them from a local source.  People will watch what they want when
they want it, and group themselves according to whatever shared
interest they feel most strongly.  Maybe their strongest shared
interest will be their physical location, but I'm guessing not.
Which means local TV is probably dead.  It was an artifact of
limitations imposed by old technology.  If someone were creating
an Internet-based TV company from scratch now, they might have some
plan for shows aimed at specific regions, but it wouldn't be a top
priority.Synchronicity and locality are tied together.  TV network affiliates
care what's on at 10 because that delivers viewers for local news
at 11.  This connection adds more brittleness than strength, however:
people don't watch what's on at 10 because they want to watch the
news afterward.TV networks will fight these trends, because they don't have
sufficient flexibility to adapt to them.  They're hemmed in by local
affiliates in much the same way car companies are hemmed in by
dealers and unions.  Inevitably, the people running the networks
will take the easy route and try to keep the old model running for
a couple more years, just as the record labels have done.A recent article in the Wall Street Journal described how TV networks
were trying to add more live shows, partly as a way to make viewers
watch TV synchronously instead of watching recorded shows when it
suited them.  Instead of delivering what viewers want, they're
trying to force them to change their habits to suit the networks'
obsolete business model.  That never works unless you have a monopoly
or cartel to enforce it, and even then it only works temporarily.The other reason networks like live shows is that they're cheaper
to produce.  There they have the right idea, but they haven't
followed it to its conclusion.   Live content can be way cheaper
than networks realize, and the way to take advantage of dramatic
decreases in cost is to 
increase volume.  The networks are prevented
from seeing this whole line of reasoning because they still think
of themselves as being in the broadcast business—as sending one
signal to everyone.
[4]___Now would be a good time to start any company that competes with
TV networks.  That's what a lot of Internet startups are, though
they may not have had this as an explicit goal.  People only have
so many leisure hours a day, and TV is premised on such long sessions
(unlike Google, which prides itself on sending users on their way
quickly) that anything that takes up their time is competing with
it.  But in addition to such indirect competitors, I think TV
companies will increasingly face direct ones.Even in cable TV, the long tail was lopped off prematurely by the
threshold you had to get over to start a new channel.  It will be
longer on the Internet, and there will be more mobility within it.
In this new world, the existing players will only have the advantages
any big company has in its market.That will change the balance of power between the networks and the
people who produce shows.  The networks used to be gatekeepers.
They distributed your work, and sold advertising on it.  Now the
people who produce a show can distribute it themselves.  The main
value networks supply now is ad sales.  Which will tend to put them
in the position of service providers rather than publishers.Shows will change even more.  On the Internet there's no reason to
keep their current format, or even the fact that they have a single
format.  Indeed, the more interesting sort of convergence that's
coming is between shows and games.  But on the question of what
sort of entertainment gets distributed on the Internet in 20 years,
I wouldn't dare to make any predictions, except that things will
change a lot.  We'll get whatever the most imaginative people can
cook up.  That's why the Internet won.Notes[1]
Thanks to Trevor Blackwell for this point.  He adds: "I
remember the eyes of phone companies gleaming in the early 90s when
they talked about convergence.  They thought most programming would
be on demand, and they would implement it and make a lot of money.
It didn't work out. They assumed that their local network infrastructure
would be critical to do video on-demand, because you couldn't
possibly stream it from a few data centers over the internet. At
the time (1992) the entire cross-country Internet bandwidth wasn't
enough for one video stream. But wide-area bandwidth increased more
than they expected and they were beaten by iTunes and Hulu."[2]
Copyright owners tend to focus on the aspect they see of
piracy, which is the lost revenue.  They therefore think what drives
users to do it is the desire to get something for free.  But iTunes
shows that people will pay for stuff online, if you make it easy.
A significant component of piracy is simply that it offers a better
user experience.[3]
Or a phone that is actually a computer.  I'm not making any
predictions about the size of the device that will replace TV, just
that it will have a browser and get data via the Internet.[4]
Emmett Shear writes: "I'd argue the long tail for sports may
be even larger than the long tail for other kinds of content. Anyone
can broadcast a high school football game that will be interesting
to 10,000 people or so, even if the quality of production is not
so good."Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, Nancy Cook, Michael Seibel,
Emmett Shear, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of this.Japanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

February 2009A lot of cities look at Silicon Valley and ask "How could we make
something like that happen here?"  The 
organic way to do it is to
establish a first-rate university in a place where rich people want
to live. That's how Silicon Valley happened.  But could you shortcut
the process by funding startups?Possibly. Let's consider what it would take.The first thing to understand is that encouraging startups is a
different problem from encouraging startups in a particular city.
The latter is much more expensive.People sometimes think they could improve the startup scene in their
town by starting something like Y 
Combinator there, but in fact it
will have near zero effect.  I know because Y Combinator itself had
near zero effect on Boston when we were based there half the year.
The people we funded came from all over the country (indeed, the
world) and afterward they went wherever they could get more
funding—which generally meant Silicon Valley.The seed funding business is not a regional business, because at
that stage startups are mobile. They're just a couple founders with
laptops. 
[1]If you want to encourage startups in a particular city, you have
to fund startups that won't leave.  There are two ways to do that:
have rules preventing them from leaving, or fund them at the point
in their life when they naturally take root.  The first approach
is a mistake, because it becomes a filter for selecting bad startups.
If your terms force startups to do things they don't want to, only
the desperate ones will take your money.Good startups will move to another city as a condition of funding.
What they won't do is agree not to move the next time they need
funding.  So the only way to get them to stay is to give them enough
that they never need to leave.___How much would that take?  If you want to keep startups from leaving
your town, you have to give them enough that they're not tempted
by an offer from Silicon Valley VCs that requires them to move.  A
startup would be able to refuse such an offer if they had grown to
the point where they were (a) rooted in your town and/or (b) so
successful that VCs would fund them even if they didn't move.How much would it cost to grow a startup to that point? A minimum
of several hundred thousand dollars.  Wufoo 
seem to have rooted
themselves in Tampa on $118k, but they're an extreme case.  On
average it would take at least half a million.So if it seems too good to be true to think you could grow a local
silicon valley by giving startups $15-20k each like Y Combinator,
that's because it is.  To make them stick around you'd have to give
them at least 20 times that much.However, even that is an interesting prospect.  Suppose to be on
the safe side it would cost a million dollars per startup. If you
could get startups to stick to your town for a million apiece, then
for a billion dollars you could bring in a thousand startups. That probably wouldn't push you past Silicon Valley itself, 
but it might get you second place.For the price of a football stadium, any town that was decent to
live in could make itself one of the biggest startup hubs in the
world.What's more, it wouldn't take very long.   You could probably do
it in five years.  During the term of one mayor. And it would get
easier over time, because the more startups you had in town, the
less it would take to get new ones to move there. By the time you
had a thousand startups in town, the VCs wouldn't be trying so hard
to get them to move to Silicon Valley; instead they'd be opening
local offices.  Then you'd really be in good shape.  You'd have
started a self-sustaining chain reaction like the one that drives
the Valley.___But now comes the hard part.  You have to pick the startups.  How
do you do that?  Picking startups is a rare and valuable skill, and
the handful of people who have it are not readily hireable.  And
this skill is so hard to measure that if a government did try to
hire people with it, they'd almost certainly get the wrong ones.For example, a city could give money to a VC fund to establish a
local branch, and let them make the choices.  But only a bad VC
fund would take that deal.  They wouldn't seem bad to the city
officials.  They'd seem very impressive.  But they'd be bad at
picking startups.  That's the characteristic failure mode of VCs.
All VCs look impressive to limited partners.  The difference between
the good ones and the bad ones only becomes visible in the other
half of their jobs: choosing and advising startups.
[2]What you really want is a pool of local angel investors—people
investing money they made from their own startups.  But unfortunately
you run into a chicken and egg problem here.  If your city isn't
already a startup hub, there won't be people there who got rich
from startups. And there is no way I can think of that a city could
attract angels from outside. By definition they're rich.  There's
no incentive that would make them move.
[3]However, a city could select startups by piggybacking on the expertise
of investors who weren't local.  It would be pretty straightforward
to make a list of the most eminent Silicon Valley angels and from
that to generate a list of all the startups they'd invested in.  If
a city offered these companies a million dollars each to move, a
lot of the earlier stage ones would probably take it.Preposterous as this plan sounds, it's probably the most efficient
way a city could select good startups.It would hurt the startups somewhat to be separated from their
original investors. On the other hand, the extra million dollars
would give them a lot more runway.___Would the transplanted startups survive?  Quite possibly. The only
way to find out would be to try it.  It would be a pretty cheap
experiment, as civil expenditures go.  Pick 30 startups that eminent
angels have recently invested in, give them each a million dollars
if they'll relocate to your city, and see what happens after a year.
If they seem to be thriving, you can try importing startups on a
larger scale.Don't be too legalistic about the conditions under which they're
allowed to leave.  Just have a gentlemen's agreement.Don't try to do it on the cheap and pick only 10 for the initial
experiment.  If you do this on too small a scale you'll just guarantee
failure. Startups need to be around other startups.  30 would be
enough to feel like a community.Don't try to make them all work in some renovated warehouse you've
made into an "incubator."  Real startups prefer to work in their
own spaces.In fact, don't impose any restrictions on the startups at all.
Startup founders are mostly hackers, 
and hackers are much more
constrained by gentlemen's agreements than regulations.  If they
shake your hand on a promise, they'll keep it.  But show them a
lock and their first thought is how to pick it.Interestingly, the 30-startup experiment could be done by any
sufficiently rich private citizen.  And what pressure it would 
put on the city if it worked.
[4]___Should the city take stock in return for the money?
In principle they're entitled to, but how would they choose valuations
for the startups?  You couldn't just give them all the same valuation:
that would be too low for some (who'd turn you down) and too high
for others (because it might make their next round a "down round").
And since we're assuming we're doing this without being able to
pick startups, we also have to assume we can't value them, since
that's practically the same thing.Another reason not to take stock in the startups is that startups
are often involved in disreputable things.  So are established
companies, but they don't get blamed for it.  If someone gets
murdered by someone they met on Facebook, the press will treat the
story as if it were about Facebook.  If someone gets murdered by
someone they met at a supermarket, the press will just treat it as
a story about a murder.  So understand that if you invest in startups,
they might build things that get used for pornography, or file-sharing,
or the expression of unfashionable opinions.  You should probably
sponsor this project jointly with your political opponents, so they
can't use whatever the startups do as a club to beat you with.It would be too much of a political liability just to give
the startups the money, though.  So the best plan would be to 
make it convertible debt, but which didn't convert except in
a really big round, like $20 million.___How well this scheme worked would depend on the 
city.  There are
some towns, like Portland, that would be easy to turn into startup
hubs, and others, like Detroit, where it would really be an uphill
battle.  So be honest with yourself about the sort of town you have
before you try this.It will be easier in proportion to how much your town resembles San
Francisco.  Do you have good weather?  Do people live downtown, or
have they abandoned the center for the suburbs?  Would the city be
described as "hip" and "tolerant," or as reflecting "traditional
values?"  Are there good universities nearby?  Are there walkable
neighborhoods?  Would nerds feel at home?  If you answered yes to
all these questions, you might be able not only to pull off this
scheme, but to do it for less than a million per startup.I realize the chance of any city having
the political will to carry out this plan is microscopically
small.  I just wanted to explore what it would take if one did.
How hard would it be to jumpstart a silicon valley?  It's
fascinating to think this prize might be within
the reach of so many cities.  So even though they'll all still
spend the money on the stadium, at least now someone can ask them:
why did you choose to do that instead of becoming a serious
rival to Silicon Valley?Notes[1]
What people who start these supposedly local seed firms always
find is that (a) their applicants come from all over, not just the
local area, and (b) the local startups also apply to the other seed
firms.  So what ends up happening is that the applicant pool gets
partitioned by quality rather than geography.[2]
Interestingly, the bad VCs fail by choosing startups run by
people like them—people who are good presenters, but have no
real substance.   It's a case of the fake leading the fake.  And
since everyone involved is so plausible, the LPs who invest in these
funds have no idea what's happening till they measure their returns.[3]
Not even being a tax haven, I suspect.  That makes some rich
people move, but not the type who would make good angel investors
in startups.[4]
Thanks to Michael Keenan for pointing this out.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston, Robert
Morris, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

February 2009Hacker News was two years
old last week.  Initially it was supposed to be a side project—an
application to sharpen Arc on, and a place for current and future
Y Combinator founders to exchange news.  It's grown bigger and taken
up more time than I expected, but I don't regret that because I've
learned so much from working on it.GrowthWhen we launched in February 2007, weekday traffic was around 1600
daily uniques.  It's since grown to around 22,000.  This growth
rate is a bit higher than I'd like.  I'd like the site to grow,
since a site that isn't growing at least slowly is probably dead.
But I wouldn't want it to grow as large as Digg or Reddit—mainly
because that would dilute the character of the site, but also because
I don't want to spend all my time dealing with scaling.I already have problems enough with that.  Remember, the original
motivation for HN was to test a new programming language, and
moreover one that's focused on experimenting with language design,
not performance.  Every time the site gets slow, I fortify myself
by recalling McIlroy and Bentley's famous quote

  The key to performance is elegance, not battalions of special
  cases.

and look for the bottleneck I can remove with least code.  So far
I've been able to keep up, in the sense that performance has remained
consistently mediocre despite 14x growth. I don't know what I'll
do next, but I'll probably think of something.This is my attitude to the site generally.  Hacker News is an
experiment, and an experiment in a very young field.  Sites of this
type are only a few years old.  Internet conversation generally is
only a few decades old.  So we've probably only discovered a fraction
of what we eventually will.That's why I'm so optimistic about HN.  When a technology is this
young, the existing solutions are usually terrible; which means it
must be possible to do much better; which means many problems that
seem insoluble aren't. Including, I hope, the problem that has
afflicted so many previous communities: being ruined by growth.DilutionUsers have worried about that since the site was a few months old.
So far these alarms have been false, but they may not always be.
Dilution is a hard problem. But probably soluble; it doesn't mean
much that open conversations have "always" been destroyed by growth
when "always" equals 20 instances.But it's important to remember we're trying to solve a new problem,
because that means we're going to have to try new things, most of
which probably won't work.  A couple weeks ago I tried displaying
the names of users with the highest average comment scores in orange.
[1]
That was a mistake.  Suddenly a culture that had been more
or less united was divided into haves and have-nots.  I didn't
realize how united the culture had been till I saw it divided.  It
was painful to watch.
[2]So orange usernames won't be back.  (Sorry about that.)  But there
will be other equally broken-seeming ideas in the future, and the
ones that turn out to work will probably seem just as broken as
those that don't.Probably the most important thing I've learned about dilution is
that it's measured more in behavior than users. It's bad behavior
you want to keep out more than bad people. User behavior turns out
to be surprisingly malleable.  If people are 
expected to behave
well, they tend to; and vice versa.Though of course forbidding bad behavior does tend to keep away bad
people, because they feel uncomfortably constrained in a place where
they have to behave well.  But this way of keeping them out is
gentler and probably also more effective than overt barriers.It's pretty clear now that the broken windows theory applies to
community sites as well.  The theory is that minor forms of bad
behavior encourage worse ones: that a neighborhood with lots of
graffiti and broken windows becomes one where robberies occur.  I
was living in New York when Giuliani introduced the reforms that
made the broken windows theory famous, and the transformation was
miraculous. And I was a Reddit user when the opposite happened
there, and the transformation was equally dramatic.I'm not criticizing Steve and Alexis.  What happened to Reddit
didn't happen out of neglect.  From the start they had a policy of
censoring nothing except spam.  Plus Reddit had different goals
from Hacker News.  Reddit was a startup, not a side project; its
goal was to grow as fast as possible.  Combine rapid growth and
zero censorship, and the result is a free for all.  But I don't
think they'd do much differently if they were doing it again.
Measured by traffic, Reddit is much more successful than Hacker
News.But what happened to Reddit won't inevitably happen to HN. There
are several local maxima.  There can be places that are free for
alls and places that are more thoughtful, just as there are in the
real world; and people will behave differently depending on which
they're in, just as they do in the real world.I've observed this in the wild.  I've seen people cross-posting on
Reddit and Hacker News who actually took the trouble to write two
versions, a flame for Reddit and a more subdued version for HN.SubmissionsThere are two major types of problems a site like Hacker News needs
to avoid: bad stories and bad comments.  So far the danger of bad
stories seems smaller.  The stories on the frontpage now are still
roughly the ones that would have been there when HN started.I once thought I'd have to weight votes to keep crap off the
frontpage, but I haven't had to yet.  I wouldn't have predicted the
frontpage would hold up so well, and I'm not sure why it has.
Perhaps only the more thoughtful users care enough to submit and
upvote links, so the marginal cost of one random new user approaches
zero.  Or perhaps the frontpage protects itself, by advertising what type of submission is expected.The most dangerous thing for the frontpage is stuff that's too easy
to upvote.  If someone proves a new theorem, it takes some work by
the reader to decide whether or not to upvote it.  An amusing cartoon
takes less.  A rant with a rallying cry as the title takes zero,
because people vote it up without even reading it.Hence what I call the Fluff Principle: on a user-voted news site,
the links that are easiest to judge will take over unless you take
specific measures to prevent it.Hacker News has two kinds of protections against fluff.  The most
common types of fluff links are banned as off-topic.  Pictures of
kittens, political diatribes, and so on are explicitly banned.  This
keeps out most fluff, but not all of it.  Some links are both fluff,
in the sense of being very short, and also on topic.There's no single solution to that.  If a link is just an empty
rant, editors will sometimes kill it even if it's on topic in the
sense of being about hacking, because it's not on topic by the real
standard, which is to engage one's intellectual curiosity.  If the
posts on a site are characteristically of this type I sometimes ban
it, which means new stuff at that url is auto-killed.  If a post
has a linkbait title, editors sometimes rephrase it to be more
matter-of-fact.  This is especially necessary with links whose
titles are rallying cries, because otherwise they become implicit
"vote up if you believe such-and-such" posts, which are the most
extreme form of fluff.The techniques for dealing with links have to evolve, because the
links do. The existence of aggregators has already affected what
they aggregate. Writers now deliberately write things to draw traffic
from aggregators—sometimes even specific ones.  (No, the irony
of this statement is not lost on me.)  Then there are the more
sinister mutations, like linkjacking—posting a paraphrase of
someone else's article and submitting that instead of the original.
These can get a lot of upvotes, because a lot of what's good in an
article often survives; indeed, the closer the paraphrase is to
plagiarism, the more survives.
[3]I think it's important that a site that kills submissions provide
a way for users to see what got killed if they want to.  That keeps
editors honest, and just as importantly, makes users confident
they'd know if the editors stopped being honest. HN users can do
this by flipping a switch called showdead in their profile.
[4]CommentsBad comments seem to be a harder problem than bad submissions.
While the quality of links on the frontpage of HN hasn't changed
much, the quality of the median comment may have decreased somewhat.There are two main kinds of badness in comments: meanness and
stupidity.  There is a lot of overlap between the two—mean
comments are disproportionately likely also to be dumb—but
the strategies for dealing with them are different.  Meanness is
easier to control.  You can have rules saying one shouldn't be mean,
and if you enforce them it seems possible to keep a lid on meanness.Keeping a lid on stupidity is harder, perhaps because stupidity is
not so easily distinguishable.  Mean people are more likely to know
they're being mean than stupid people are to know they're being
stupid.The most dangerous form of stupid comment is not the long but
mistaken argument, but the dumb joke.  Long but mistaken arguments
are actually quite rare.  There is a strong correlation between
comment quality and length; if you wanted to compare the quality
of comments on community sites, average length would be a good
predictor.  Probably the cause is human nature rather than anything
specific to comment threads. Probably it's simply that stupidity
more often takes the form of having few ideas than wrong ones.Whatever the cause, stupid comments tend to be short.  And since
it's hard to write a short comment that's distinguished for the
amount of information it conveys, people try to distinguish them
instead by being funny.  The most tempting format for stupid comments
is the supposedly witty put-down, probably because put-downs are
the easiest form of humor. 
[5]
So one advantage of forbidding
meanness is that it also cuts down on these.Bad comments are like kudzu: they take over rapidly. Comments have
much more effect on new comments than submissions have on new
submissions.  If someone submits a lame article, the other submissions
don't all become lame.  But if someone posts a stupid comment on a
thread, that sets the tone for the region around it.  People reply
to dumb jokes with dumb jokes.Maybe the solution is to add a delay before people can respond to
a comment, and make the length of the delay inversely proportional
to some prediction of its quality.  Then dumb threads would grow
slower.
[6]PeopleI notice most of the techniques I've described are conservative:
they're aimed at preserving the character of the site rather than
enhancing it.  I don't think that's a bias of mine.  It's due to
the shape of the problem.  Hacker News had the good fortune to start
out good, so in this case it's literally a matter of preservation.
But I think this principle would also apply to sites with different
origins.The good things in a community site come from people more than
technology; it's mainly in the prevention of bad things that
technology comes into play. Technology certainly can enhance
discussion.  Nested comments do, for example.  But I'd rather use
a site with primitive features and smart, nice users than a more
advanced one whose users were idiots or trolls.So the most important thing a community site can do is attract the
kind of people it wants.  A site trying to be as big as possible
wants to attract everyone.  But a site aiming at a particular subset
of users has to attract just those—and just as importantly,
repel everyone else.  I've made a conscious effort to do this on
HN.  The graphic design is as plain as possible, and the site rules
discourage dramatic link titles.  The goal is that the only thing
to interest someone arriving at HN for the first time should be the
ideas expressed there.The downside of tuning a site to attract certain people is that,
to those people, it can be too attractive.  I'm all too aware how
addictive Hacker News can be.  For me, as for many users, it's a
kind of virtual town square.  When I want to take a break from
working, I walk into the square, just as I might into Harvard Square
or University Ave in the physical world.
[7]
But an online square is
more dangerous than a physical one.  If I spent half the day loitering
on University Ave, I'd notice.  I have to walk a mile to get there,
and sitting in a cafe feels different from working. But visiting
an online forum takes just a click, and feels superficially very
much like working.  You may be wasting your time, but you're not
idle.  Someone is wrong on the Internet, and you're fixing the
problem.Hacker News is definitely useful.  I've learned a lot from things
I've read on HN.  I've written several essays that began as comments
there.  So I wouldn't want the site to go away.  But I would like
to be sure it's not a net drag on productivity.  What a disaster
that would be, to attract thousands of smart people to a site that
caused them to waste lots of time.  I wish I could be 100% sure
that's not a description of HN.I feel like the addictiveness of games and social applications is
still a mostly unsolved problem.  The situation now is like it was
with crack in the 1980s: we've invented terribly addictive new
things, and we haven't yet evolved ways to protect ourselves from
them.  We will eventually, and that's one of the problems I hope
to focus on next.Notes[1]
I tried ranking users by both average and median comment
score, and average (with the high score thrown out) seemed the more
accurate predictor of high quality.  Median may be the more accurate
predictor of low quality though.[2]
Another thing I learned from this experiment is that if you're
going to distinguish between people, you better be sure you do it
right.  This is one problem where rapid prototyping doesn't work.Indeed, that's the intellectually honest argument for not discriminating
between various types of people.  The reason not to do it is not
that everyone's the same, but that it's bad to do wrong and hard
to do right.[3]
When I catch egregiously linkjacked posts I replace the url
with that of whatever they copied.  Sites that habitually linkjack
get banned.[4]
Digg is notorious for its lack of transparency.  The root of
the problem is not that the guys running Digg are especially sneaky,
but that they use the wrong algorithm for generating their frontpage.
Instead of bubbling up from the bottom as they get more votes, as
on Reddit, stories start at the top and get pushed down by new
arrivals.The reason for the difference is that Digg is derived from Slashdot,
while Reddit is derived from Delicious/popular.  Digg is Slashdot
with voting instead of editors, and Reddit is Delicious/popular
with voting instead of bookmarking.  (You can still see fossils of
their origins in their graphic design.)Digg's algorithm is very vulnerable to gaming, because any story
that makes it onto the frontpage is the new top story.  Which in
turn forces Digg to respond with extreme countermeasures.  A lot
of startups have some kind of secret about the subterfuges they had
to resort to in the early days, and I suspect Digg's is the extent
to which the top stories were de facto chosen by human editors.[5]
The dialog on Beavis and Butthead was composed largely of
these, and when I read comments on really bad sites I can hear them
in their voices.[6]
I suspect most of the techniques for discouraging stupid
comments have yet to be discovered.  Xkcd implemented a particularly
clever one in its IRC channel: don't allow the same thing twice.
Once someone has said "fail," no one can ever say it again.  This
would penalize short comments especially, because they have less
room to avoid collisions in.Another promising idea is the stupid 
filter, which is just like a
probabilistic spam filter, but trained on corpora of stupid and
non-stupid comments instead.You may not have to kill bad comments to solve the problem.  Comments
at the bottom of a long thread are rarely seen, so it may be enough
to incorporate a prediction of quality in the comment sorting
algorithm.[7]
What makes most suburbs so demoralizing is that there's no
center to walk to.Thanks to Justin Kan, Jessica Livingston, Robert Morris,
Alexis Ohanian, Emmet Shear, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of
this.Comment on this essay.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


Watch how this essay was
written.


February 2009One of the things I always tell startups is a principle I learned
from Paul Buchheit: it's better to make a few people really happy
than to make a lot of people semi-happy.  I was saying recently to
a reporter that if I could only tell startups 10 things, this would
be one of them.  Then I thought: what would the other 9 be?When I made the list there turned out to be 13:

1. Pick good cofounders.Cofounders are for a startup what location is for real estate.  You
can change anything about a house except where it is.  In a startup
you can change your idea easily, but changing your cofounders is
hard. 
[1]
And the success of a startup is almost always a function
of its founders.2. Launch fast.The reason to launch fast is not so much that it's critical to get
your product to market early, but that you haven't really started
working on it till you've launched.  Launching teaches you what you
should have been building.  Till you know that you're wasting your
time.  So the main value of whatever you launch with is as a pretext
for engaging users.3. Let your idea evolve.This is the second half of launching fast. Launch fast and iterate.
It's a big mistake to treat a startup as if it were merely a matter
of implementing some brilliant initial idea. As in an essay, most
of the ideas appear in the implementing.4. Understand your users.You can envision the wealth created by a startup as a rectangle,
where one side is the number of users and the other is how much you
improve their lives.
[2]
The second dimension is the one you have
most control over.  And indeed, the growth in the first will be
driven by how well you do in the second.  As in science, the hard
part is not answering questions but asking them: the hard part is
seeing something new that users lack. The better you understand
them the better the odds of doing that. That's why so many successful
startups make something the founders needed.5. Better to make a few users love you than a lot ambivalent.Ideally you want to make large numbers of users love you, but you
can't expect to hit that right away.  Initially you have to choose
between satisfying all the needs of a subset of potential users,
or satisfying a subset of the needs of all potential users.  Take
the first. It's easier to expand userwise than satisfactionwise.
And perhaps more importantly, it's harder to lie to yourself.  If
you think you're 85% of the way to a great product, how do you know
it's not 70%?  Or 10%?  Whereas it's easy to know how many users
you have.6. Offer surprisingly good customer service.Customers are used to being maltreated.  Most of the companies they
deal with are quasi-monopolies that get away with atrocious customer
service. Your own ideas about what's possible have been unconsciously
lowered by such experiences.  Try making your customer service not
merely good, but 
surprisingly good.  Go out of your way to make
people happy.  They'll be overwhelmed; you'll see.  In the earliest
stages of a startup, it pays to offer customer service on a level
that wouldn't scale, because it's a way of learning about your
users.7. You make what you measure.I learned this one from Joe Kraus. 
[3]
Merely measuring something
has an uncanny tendency to improve it.  If you want to make your
user numbers go up, put a big piece of paper on your wall and every
day plot the number of users.  You'll be delighted when it goes up
and disappointed when it goes down.  Pretty soon you'll start
noticing what makes the number go up, and you'll start to do more
of that.  Corollary: be careful what you measure.8. Spend little.I can't emphasize enough how important it is for a startup to be cheap.
Most startups fail before they make something people want, and the
most common form of failure is running out of money.  So being cheap
is (almost) interchangeable with iterating rapidly.
[4]
But it's
more than that.  A culture of cheapness keeps companies young in
something like the way exercise keeps people young.9. Get ramen profitable."Ramen profitable" means a startup makes just enough to pay the
founders' living expenses.  It's not rapid prototyping for business
models (though it can be), but more a way of hacking the investment
process.  Once you cross over into ramen profitable, it completely
changes your relationship with investors.  It's also great for
morale.10. Avoid distractions.Nothing kills startups like distractions.  The worst type are those
that pay money: day jobs, consulting, profitable side-projects.
The startup may have more long-term potential, but you'll always
interrupt working on it to answer calls from people paying you now.
Paradoxically, fundraising is this type of distraction, so try to
minimize that too.11. Don't get demoralized.Though the immediate cause of death in a startup tends to be running
out of money, the underlying cause is usually lack of focus.  Either
the company is run by stupid people (which can't be fixed with
advice) or the people are smart but got demoralized.  Starting a
startup is a huge moral weight.  Understand this and make a conscious
effort not to be ground down by it, just as you'd be careful to
bend at the knees when picking up a heavy box.12. Don't give up.Even if you get demoralized, don't give up.  You can get surprisingly
far by just not giving up.  This isn't true in all fields.  There
are a lot of people who couldn't become good mathematicians no
matter how long they persisted.  But startups aren't like that.
Sheer effort is usually enough, so long as you keep morphing your
idea.13. Deals fall through.One of the most useful skills we learned from Viaweb was not getting
our hopes up.  We probably had 20 deals of various types fall
through.  After the first 10 or so we learned to treat deals as
background processes that we should ignore till they terminated.
It's very dangerous to morale to start to depend on deals closing,
not just because they so often don't, but because it makes them
less likely to.

Having gotten it down to 13 sentences, I asked myself which I'd
choose if I could only keep one.Understand your users.  That's the key.  The essential task in a
startup is to create wealth; the dimension of wealth you have most
control over is how much you improve users' lives; and the hardest
part of that is knowing what to make for them.  Once you know what
to make, it's mere effort to make it, and most decent hackers are
capable of that.Understanding your users is part of half the principles in this
list.  That's the reason to launch early, to understand your users.
Evolving your idea is the embodiment of understanding your users.
Understanding your users well will tend to push you toward making
something that makes a few people deeply happy.  The most important
reason for having surprisingly good customer service is that it
helps you understand your users.  And understanding your users will
even ensure your morale, because when everything else is collapsing
around you, having just ten users who love you will keep you going.Notes[1]
Strictly speaking it's impossible without a time machine.[2]
In practice it's more like a ragged comb.[3]
Joe thinks one of the founders of Hewlett Packard said it first,
but he doesn't remember which.[4]
They'd be interchangeable if markets stood still.  Since they
don't, working twice as fast is better than having twice as much
time.Turkish TranslationSpanish TranslationBulgarian TranslationJapanese TranslationPersian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

February 2009I finally realized today why politics and religion yield such
uniquely useless discussions.As a rule, any mention of religion on an online forum degenerates
into a religious argument.  Why?  Why does this happen with religion
and not with Javascript or baking or other topics people talk about
on forums?What's different about religion is that people don't feel they need
to have any particular expertise to have opinions about
it.  All they need is strongly held beliefs, and anyone can have
those.  No thread about Javascript will grow as fast as one about
religion, because people feel they have to be over some threshold
of expertise to post comments about that.  But on religion everyone's
an expert.Then it struck me: this is the problem with politics too.  Politics,
like religion, is a topic where there's no threshold of expertise
for expressing an opinion.  All you need is strong convictions.Do religion and politics have something in common that explains
this similarity?  One possible explanation is that they deal with
questions that have no definite answers, so there's no back pressure
on people's opinions.  Since no one can be proven wrong, every
opinion is equally valid, and sensing this, everyone lets fly with
theirs.But this isn't true.  There are certainly some political questions
that have definite answers, like how much a new government policy
will cost.  But the more precise political questions suffer the
same fate as the vaguer ones.I think what religion and politics have in common is that they
become part of people's identity, and people can never have a
fruitful argument about something that's part of their identity.
By definition they're partisan.Which topics engage people's identity depends on the people, not
the topic.  For example, a discussion about a battle that included
citizens of one or more of the countries involved would probably
degenerate into a political argument.  But a discussion today about
a battle that took place in the Bronze Age probably wouldn't.  No
one would know what side to be on.  So it's not politics that's the
source of the trouble, but identity.  When people say a discussion
has degenerated into a religious war, what they really mean is that
it has started to be driven mostly by people's identities.
[1]Because the point at which this happens depends on the people rather
than the topic, it's a mistake to conclude that because a question
tends to provoke religious wars, it must have no answer. For example,
the question of the relative merits of programming languages often
degenerates into a religious war, because so many programmers
identify as X programmers or Y programmers.  This sometimes leads
people to conclude the question must be unanswerable—that all
languages are equally good.  Obviously that's false: anything else
people make can be well or badly designed; why should this be
uniquely impossible for programming languages?  And indeed, you can
have a fruitful discussion about the relative merits of programming
languages, so long as you exclude people who respond from identity.More generally, you can have a fruitful discussion about a topic
only if it doesn't engage the identities of any of the
participants.  What makes politics and religion such minefields is
that they engage so many people's identities.  But you could in
principle have a useful conversation about them with some people.
And there are other topics that might seem harmless, like the
relative merits of Ford and Chevy pickup trucks, that you couldn't
safely talk about with others.The most intriguing thing about this theory, if it's right, is that
it explains not merely which kinds of discussions to avoid, but how
to have better ideas.  If people can't think clearly about anything
that has become part of their identity, then all other things being
equal, the best plan is to let as few things into your identity as
possible. 
[2]Most people reading this will already be fairly tolerant.  But there
is a step beyond thinking of yourself as x but tolerating y: not
even to consider yourself an x.  The more labels you have for
yourself, the dumber they make you.Notes[1]
When that happens, it tends to happen fast, like a core going
critical.  The threshold for participating goes down to zero, which
brings in more people.  And they tend to say incendiary things,
which draw more and angrier counterarguments.[2]
There may be some things it's a net win to include in your
identity.  For example, being a scientist.  But arguably that is
more of a placeholder than an actual label—like putting NMI on a
form that asks for your middle initial—because it doesn't commit
you to believing anything in particular.   A scientist isn't committed
to believing in natural selection in the same way a biblical
literalist is committed to rejecting it.  All he's committed to is
following the evidence wherever it leads.Considering yourself a scientist is equivalent to putting a sign
in a cupboard saying "this cupboard must be kept empty."  Yes,
strictly speaking, you're putting something in the cupboard, but
not in the ordinary sense.Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, Paul Buchheit, and Robert
Morris for reading drafts of this.Russian TranslationPortuguese TranslationRomanian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

December 2008A few months ago I read a New York Times article on South
Korean cram schools that said 
  Admission to the right university can make or break an ambitious
  young South Korean.
 A parent added: 
  "In our country, college entrance exams determine 70 to 80 percent
  of a person's future."
 It was striking how old fashioned this sounded.  And
yet when I was in high school it wouldn't have seemed too far off
as a description of the US.  Which means things must have been
changing here.The course of people's lives in the US now seems to be determined
less by credentials and more by performance than it was 25 years
ago.  Where you go to college still matters, but not like it used
to.What happened?_____Judging people by their academic credentials was in its time an
advance.  The practice seems to have begun in China, where starting
in 587 candidates for the imperial civil service had to take an
exam on classical literature.  [1] It was also a test of wealth,
because the knowledge it tested was so specialized that passing
required years of expensive training.  But though wealth was a
necessary condition for passing, it was not a sufficient one.  By
the standards of the rest of the world in 587, the Chinese system
was very enlightened.  Europeans didn't introduce formal civil
service exams till the nineteenth century, and even then they seem
to have been influenced by the Chinese example.Before credentials, government positions were obtained mainly by
family influence, if not outright bribery.   It was a great step
forward to judge people by their performance on a test.  But by no
means a perfect solution.  When you judge people that way, you tend
to get cram schools — which they did in Ming China and nineteenth
century England just as much as in present day South Korea.What cram schools are, in effect, is leaks in a seal.  The use of
credentials
was an attempt to seal off the direct transmission of power between
generations, and cram schools represent that power finding holes
in the seal.  Cram schools turn wealth in one generation into
credentials in the next.It's hard to beat this phenomenon, because the schools adjust to suit
whatever the tests measure.  When the tests are narrow and
predictable, you get cram schools on the classic model, like those
that prepared candidates for Sandhurst (the British West Point) or
the classes American students take now to improve their SAT scores.
But as the tests get broader, the schools do too.  Preparing a
candidate for the Chinese imperial civil service exams took years,
as prep school does today.  But the raison d'etre of all these
institutions has been the same: to beat the system.  [2]_____History suggests that, all other things being equal, a society
prospers in proportion to its ability to prevent parents from
influencing their children's success directly.  It's a fine thing
for parents to help their children indirectly — for example,
by helping them to become smarter or more disciplined, which then
makes them more successful.  The problem comes when parents use
direct methods: when they are able to use their own wealth or power
as a substitute for their children's qualities.Parents will tend to do this when they can.  Parents will die for
their kids, so it's not surprising to find they'll also push their
scruples to the limits for them.  Especially if other parents are
doing it.Sealing off this force has a double advantage.  Not only does a
society get "the best man for the job," but
parents' ambitions are diverted from direct methods to indirect
ones — to actually trying to raise their kids well.But we should expect it to be very hard to contain parents' efforts
to obtain an unfair advantage for their kids.  We're dealing with
one of the most powerful forces in human nature.  We shouldn't expect
naive solutions to work, any more than we'd expect naive solutions
for keeping heroin out of a prison to work._____The obvious way to solve the problem is to make credentials better.
If the tests a society uses are currently hackable, we can study
the way people beat them and try to plug the holes.  You can use
the cram schools to show you where most of the holes are.  They
also tell you when you're succeeding in fixing them: when cram
schools become less popular.A more general solution
would be to push for increased transparency, especially at critical
social bottlenecks like college admissions.  In the US this process
still shows many outward signs of corruption.  For example, legacy
admissions.  The official story is that legacy status doesn't carry
much weight, because all it does is break ties: applicants are
bucketed by ability, and legacy status is only used to decide between
the applicants in the bucket that straddles the cutoff.  But what
this means is that a university can make legacy status have as much
or as little weight as they want, by adjusting the size of the
bucket that straddles the cutoff.By gradually chipping away at the abuse of credentials, you could
probably make them more airtight.  But what a long fight it would
be.  Especially when the institutions administering the tests don't
really want them to be airtight._____Fortunately there's a better way to prevent the direct transmission
of power between generations.  Instead of trying to make credentials
harder to hack, we can also make them matter less.Let's think about what credentials are for.  What they are,
functionally, is a way of predicting performance.  If you could
measure actual performance, you wouldn't need them.So why did they even evolve?  Why haven't we just been measuring
actual performance?  Think about where credentialism first appeared:
in selecting candidates for large organizations.  Individual
performance is hard to measure in large organizations, and the
harder performance is to measure, the more important it is
to predict it.  If an organization could immediately and cheaply
measure the performance of recruits, they wouldn't need to examine
their credentials.  They could take everyone and keep just the good
ones.Large organizations can't do this.  But a bunch of small organizations
in a market can come close.  A market takes every organization and
keeps just the good ones.  As organizations get smaller, this
approaches taking every person and keeping just the good ones.  So
all other things being equal, a society consisting of more, smaller
organizations will care less about credentials._____That's what's been happening in the US.  That's why those quotes
from Korea sound so old fashioned.  They're talking about an economy
like America's a few decades ago, dominated by a few big companies.
The route for the ambitious in that sort of environment is to join
one and climb to the top.  Credentials matter a lot then.  In the 
culture of a large organization, an elite pedigree becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy.This doesn't work in small companies.  Even if your colleagues were
impressed by your credentials, they'd soon be parted from you if
your performance didn't match, because the company would go out of
business and the people would be dispersed.In a world of small companies, performance is all anyone cares
about.  People hiring for a startup don't care whether you've even
graduated from college, let alone which one.  All they care about
is what you can do.  Which is in fact all that should matter, even
in a large organization.  The reason credentials have such prestige
is that for so long the large organizations
in a society tended to be the most powerful.  But in the US at least
they don't have the monopoly on power they once did, precisely
because they can't measure (and thus reward) individual performance.
Why spend twenty years climbing the corporate ladder when you can
get rewarded directly by the market?I realize I see a more exaggerated version of the change than most
other people.  As a partner at an early stage venture funding firm,
I'm like a jumpmaster shoving people out of the old world of
credentials and into the new one of performance.  I'm an agent of
the change I'm seeing.  But I don't think I'm imagining it.  It was
not so easy 25 years ago for an ambitious person to choose to be
judged directly by the market.  You had to go through bosses, and
they were influenced by where you'd been to college._____What made it possible for small organizations to succeed in America?
I'm still not entirely sure.  Startups are certainly a large part
of it.  Small organizations can develop new ideas faster than large
ones, and new ideas are increasingly valuable.But I don't think startups account for all the shift from credentials
to measurement.  My friend Julian Weber told me that when he went
to work for a New York law firm in the 1950s they paid associates
far less than firms do today.  Law firms then made no pretense of
paying people according to the value of the work they'd done.  Pay
was based on seniority.  The younger employees were paying their
dues.  They'd be rewarded later.The same principle prevailed at industrial companies.  When my
father was working at Westinghouse in the 1970s, he had people
working for him who made more than he did, because they'd been there
longer.Now companies increasingly have to pay employees market price for
the work they do.   One reason is that employees no longer trust
companies to deliver 
deferred rewards: why work to accumulate
deferred rewards at a company that might go bankrupt, or be taken
over and have all its implicit obligations wiped out?  The other
is that some companies broke ranks and started to pay young employees
large amounts.  This was particularly true in consulting, law, and
finance, where it led to the phenomenon of yuppies.  The word is
rarely used today because it's no longer surprising to see a 25
year old with money, but in 1985 the sight of a 25 year old
professional able to afford a new BMW was so novel that it
called forth a new word.The classic yuppie worked for a small organization.  He didn't work
for General Widget, but for the law firm that handled General
Widget's acquisitions or the investment bank that floated their
bond issues.Startups and yuppies entered the American conceptual vocabulary
roughly simultaneously in the late 1970s and early 1980s.  I don't
think there was a causal connection.  Startups happened because
technology started to change so fast that big companies could no
longer keep a lid on the smaller ones.  I don't think the rise of
yuppies was inspired by it; it seems more as if there was a change
in the social conventions (and perhaps the laws) governing the way
big companies worked.  But the two phenomena rapidly fused to produce
a principle that now seems obvious: paying energetic young people
market rates, and getting correspondingly high performance from
them.At about the same time the US economy rocketed out of the doldrums
that had afflicted it for most of the 1970s.  Was there a connection?
I don't know enough to say, but it felt like it at the time.  There
was a lot of energy released._____Countries worried about their competitiveness are right to be
concerned about the number of startups started within them.  But
they would do even better to examine the underlying principle.  Do
they let energetic young people get paid market rate for the work
they do?  The young are the test, because when people aren't rewarded
according to performance, they're invariably rewarded according to
seniority instead.All it takes is a few beachheads in your economy that pay for
performance.  Measurement spreads like heat.  If one part of a
society is better at measurement than others, it tends to push the
others to do better.  If people who are young but smart and driven
can make more by starting their own companies than by working for
existing ones, the existing companies are forced to pay more to
keep them.  So market rates gradually permeate every organization,
even the government.  [3]The measurement of performance will tend to push even the organizations
issuing credentials into line.  When we were kids I used to annoy
my sister by ordering her to do things I knew she was about to do
anyway.  As credentials are superseded by performance, a similar
role is the best former gatekeepers can hope for.  Once credential
granting institutions are no longer in the self-fulfilling prophecy
business, they'll have to work harder to predict the future._____Credentials are a step beyond bribery and influence.  But they're
not the final step.  There's an even better way to block the
transmission of power between generations: to encourage the trend
toward an economy made of more, smaller units.  Then you can measure
what credentials merely predict.No one likes the transmission of power between generations — not
the left or the right.  But the market forces favored by the right
turn out to be a better way of preventing it than the credentials
the left are forced to fall back on.The era of credentials began to end when the power of large
organizations peaked 
in the late twentieth century.  Now we seem
to be entering a new era based on measurement.  The reason the new
model has advanced so rapidly is that it works so much better.  It
shows no sign of slowing.Notes[1] Miyazaki, Ichisada
(Conrad Schirokauer trans.), China's Examination Hell: The Civil
Service Examinations of Imperial China, Yale University Press,
1981.Scribes in ancient Egypt took exams, but they were more the type
of proficiency test any apprentice might have to pass.[2] When I say the
raison d'etre of prep schools is to get kids into better colleges,
I mean this in the narrowest sense.  I'm not saying that's all prep
schools do, just that if they had zero effect on college admissions
there would be far less demand for them.[3] Progressive tax
rates will tend to damp this effect, however, by decreasing the
difference between good and bad measurers.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Sarah Harlin, Jessica Livingston, and David
Sloo for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

December 2008(I originally wrote this at the request of a company producing
a report about entrepreneurship.  Unfortunately after reading it
they decided  it was too controversial to include.)
VC funding will probably dry up somewhat during the present recession,
like it usually does in bad times.  But this time the result may
be different.  This time the number of new startups may not decrease.
And that could be dangerous for VCs.When VC funding dried up after the Internet Bubble, startups dried
up too.   There were not a lot of new startups being founded in
2003.  But startups aren't tied to VC the way they were 10 years
ago.  It's now possible for VCs and startups to diverge.  And if
they do, they may not reconverge once the economy gets better.The reason startups no longer depend so much on VCs is one that
everyone in the startup business knows by now: it has gotten much
cheaper to start a startup.  There are four main reasons: Moore's
law has made hardware cheap; open source has made software free;
the web has made marketing and distribution free; and more powerful
programming languages mean development teams can be smaller.  These
changes have pushed the cost of starting a startup down into the
noise.  In a lot of startups—probaby most startups funded by
Y Combinator—the biggest expense is simply the founders'
living expenses.  We've had startups that were profitable on revenues
of $3000 a month.$3000 is insignificant as revenues go.  Why should anyone care about
a startup making $3000 a month?  Because, although insignificant
as revenue, this amount of money can change a startup's
funding situation completely.Someone running a startup is always calculating in the back of their
mind how much "runway" they have—how long they have till the
money in the bank runs out and they either have to be profitable,
raise more money, or go out of business.  Once you cross the threshold
of profitability, however low, your runway becomes infinite.  It's
a qualitative change, like the stars turning into lines and
disappearing when the Enterprise accelerates to warp speed.  Once
you're profitable you don't need investors' money.  And because
Internet startups have become so cheap to run, the threshold of
profitability can be trivially low.  Which means many Internet
startups don't need VC-scale investments anymore.  For many startups,
VC funding has, in the language of VCs, gone from a must-have to a
nice-to-have.This change happened while no one was looking, and its effects have
been largely masked so far.  It was during the trough after the
Internet Bubble that it became trivially cheap to start a startup,
but few realized it because startups were so out of fashion.   When
startups came back into fashion, around 2005, investors were starting
to write checks again.  And while founders may not have needed VC
money the way they used to, they were willing to take it if
offered—partly because there was a tradition of startups
taking VC money, and partly because startups, like dogs, tend to
eat when given the opportunity.  As long as VCs were writing checks,
founders were never forced to explore the limits of how little they
needed them.  There were a few startups who hit these limits
accidentally because of their unusual circumstances—most
famously 37signals, which hit the limit because they crossed into
startup land from the other direction: they started as a consulting
firm, so they had revenue before they had a product.VCs and founders are like two components that used to be bolted
together.  Around 2000 the bolt was removed.  Because the components
have so far been subjected to the same forces, they still seem to
be joined together, but really one is just resting on the other.
A sharp impact would make them fly apart.  And the present recession
could be that impact.Because of Y Combinator's position at the extreme end of the spectrum,
we'd be the first to see signs of a separation between founders and
investors, and we are in fact seeing it.  For example, though the
stock market crash does seem to have made investors more cautious,
it doesn't seem to have had any effect on the number of people who
want to start startups.  We take applications for funding every 6
months.  Applications for the current funding cycle closed on October
17, well after the markets tanked, and even so we got a record
number, up 40% from the same cycle a year before.Maybe things will be different a year from now, if the economy
continues to get worse, but so far there is zero slackening of
interest among potential founders.  That's different from the way
things felt in 2001.  Then there was a widespread feeling among
potential founders that startups were over, and that one should
just go to grad school.   That isn't happening this time, and part
of the reason is that even in a bad economy it's not that hard to
build something that makes $3000 a month.  If investors stop writing
checks, who cares?We also see signs of a divergence between founders and investors
in the attitudes of existing startups we've funded.  I was talking
to one recently that had a round fall through at the last minute
over the sort of trifle that breaks deals when investors feel they
have the upper hand—over an uncertainty about whether the
founders had correctly filed their 83(b) forms, if you can believe
that.  And yet this startup is obviously going to succeed: their
traffic and revenue graphs look like a jet taking off.  So I asked
them if they wanted me to introduce them to more investors.  To my
surprise, they said no—that they'd just spent four months
dealing with investors, and they were actually a lot happier now
that they didn't have to.  There was a friend they wanted to hire
with the investor money, and now they'd have to postpone that.  But
otherwise they felt they had enough in the bank to make it to
profitability.  To make sure, they were moving to a cheaper apartment.
And in this economy I bet they got a good deal on it.I've detected this "investors aren't worth the trouble" vibe from
several YC founders I've talked to recently.  At least one startup
from the most recent (summer) cycle may not even raise angel money,
let alone VC.  Ticketstumbler
made it to profitability on Y Combinator's $15,000 investment and
they hope not to need more.  This surprised even us.  Although YC
is based on the idea of it being cheap to start a startup, we never
anticipated that founders would grow successful startups on nothing
more than YC funding.If founders decide VCs aren't worth the trouble, that could be bad
for VCs.  When the economy bounces back in a few years and they're
ready to write checks again, they may find that founders have moved
on.There is a founder community just as there's a VC community.  They
all know one another, and techniques spread rapidly between them.
If one tries a new programming language or a new hosting provider
and gets good results, 6 months later half of them are using it.
And the same is true for funding.  The current generation of founders
want to raise money from VCs, and Sequoia specifically, because
Larry and Sergey took money from VCs, and Sequoia specifically.
Imagine what it would do to the VC business if the next hot company
didn't take VC at all.VCs think they're playing a zero sum game.  In fact, it's not even
that.  If you lose a deal to Benchmark, you lose that deal, but VC
as an industry still wins.  If you lose a deal to None, all VCs
lose.This recession may be different from the one after the Internet
Bubble.  This time founders may keep starting startups.  And if
they do, VCs will have to keep writing checks, or they could become
irrelevant.Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, David Hornik, Jessica
Livingston, Robert Morris, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of
this.Russian Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

December 2008For nearly all of history the success of a society was proportionate
to its ability to assemble large and disciplined organizations.
Those who bet on economies of scale generally won, which meant the
largest organizations were the most successful ones.Things have already changed so much that this is hard for us to
believe, but till just a few decades ago the largest organizations
tended to be the most progressive.  An ambitious kid graduating
from college in 1960 wanted to work in the huge, gleaming offices
of Ford, or General Electric, or NASA.  Small meant small-time.
Small in 1960 didn't mean a cool little startup.  It meant uncle
Sid's shoe store.When I grew up in the 1970s, the idea of the "corporate ladder" was
still very much alive.  The standard plan was to try to get into a
good college, from which one would be drafted into some organization
and then rise to positions of gradually increasing responsibility.
The more ambitious merely hoped to climb the same ladder faster.
[1]But in the late twentieth century something changed.  It turned out
that economies of scale were not the only force at work.  Particularly
in technology, the increase in speed one could get from smaller
groups started to trump the advantages of size.The future turned out to be different from the one we were expecting
in 1970.  The domed cities and flying cars we expected have failed
to materialize.  But fortunately so have the jumpsuits with badges
indicating our specialty and rank.  Instead of being dominated by
a few, giant tree-structured organizations, it's now looking like
the economy of the future will be a fluid network of smaller,
independent units.It's not so much that large organizations stopped working.  There's
no evidence that famously successful organizations like the Roman
army or the British East India Company were any less afflicted by
protocol and politics than organizations of the same size today.
But they were competing against opponents who couldn't change the
rules on the fly by discovering new technology.  Now it turns out
the rule "large and disciplined organizations win" needs to have a
qualification appended: "at games that change slowly." No one knew
till change reached a sufficient speed.Large organizations will start to do worse now, though,
because for the first time in history they're no longer getting the
best people.  An ambitious kid graduating from college now doesn't
want to work for a big company.  They want to work for the hot
startup that's rapidly growing into one.  If they're really ambitious,
they want to start it. 
[2]This doesn't mean big companies will disappear.  To say that
startups will succeed implies that big companies will exist, because
startups that succeed either become big companies or are acquired
by them. 
[3]
But large organizations will probably never again
play the leading role they did up till the last quarter of the
twentieth century.It's kind of surprising that a trend that lasted so long would ever
run out.  How often does it happen that a rule works for thousands
of years, then switches polarity?The millennia-long run of bigger-is-better left us with a lot of
traditions that are now obsolete, 
but extremely deeply rooted.
Which means the ambitious can now do arbitrage on them.  It will
be very valuable to understand precisely which ideas to keep and
which can now be discarded.The place to look is where the spread of smallness began: in the
world of startups.There have always been occasional cases, particularly in the US,
of ambitious people who grew the ladder under them instead of
climbing it.  But till recently this was an anomalous route that
tended to be followed only by outsiders.  It was no coincidence
that the great industrialists of the nineteenth century had so
little formal education.  As huge as their companies eventually
became, they were all essentially mechanics and shopkeepers at
first.  That was a social step no one with a college education would
take if they could avoid it.  Till the rise of technology startups,
and in particular, Internet startups, it was very unusual for
educated people to start their own businesses.The eight men who left Shockley Semiconductor to found Fairchild
Semiconductor, the original Silicon Valley startup, weren't even
trying to start a company at first.  They were just looking for a
company willing to hire them as a group.  Then one of their parents
introduced them to a small investment bank that offered to find
funding for them to start their own, so they did.  But starting a
company was an alien idea to them; it was something they backed
into.
[4]Now I would guess that practically every Stanford or Berkeley
undergrad who knows how to program has at least considered the idea
of starting a startup.  East Coast universities are not far behind,
and British universities only a little behind them.  This pattern
suggests that attitudes at Stanford and Berkeley are not an anomaly,
but a leading indicator.  This is the way the world is going.Of course, Internet startups are still only a fraction of the world's
economy.  Could a trend based on them be that powerful?I think so.  There's no reason to suppose there's any limit to the
amount of work that could be done in this area.  Like science,
wealth seems to expand fractally.  Steam power was a sliver of the
British economy when Watt started working on it.  But his work led
to more work till that sliver had expanded into something bigger
than the whole economy of which it had initially been a part.The same thing could happen with the Internet.  If Internet startups
offer the best opportunity for ambitious people, then a lot of
ambitious people will start them, and this bit of the economy will
balloon in the usual fractal way.Even if Internet-related applications only become a tenth of the
world's economy, this component will set the tone for the rest.
The most dynamic part of the economy always does, in everything
from salaries to standards of dress.  Not just because of its
prestige, but because the principles underlying the most dynamic
part of the economy tend to be ones that work.For the future, the trend to bet on seems to be networks of small,
autonomous groups whose performance is measured individually.  And
the societies that win will be the ones with the least impedance.As with the original industrial revolution, some societies are going
to be better at this than others.  Within a generation of its birth
in England, the Industrial Revolution had spread to continental
Europe and North America.  But it didn't spread everywhere.  This
new way of doing things could only take root in places that were
prepared for it.  It could only spread to places that already had
a vigorous middle class.There is a similar social component to the transformation that began
in Silicon Valley in the 1960s.  Two new kinds of techniques were
developed there: techniques for building integrated circuits, and
techniques for building a new type of company designed to grow fast
by creating new technology.  The techniques for building integrated
circuits spread rapidly to other countries.  But the techniques for
building startups didn't.  Fifty years later, startups are ubiquitous
in Silicon Valley and common in a handful of other US cities, but
they're still an anomaly in most of the world.Part of the reason—possibly the main reason—that startups
have not spread as broadly as the Industrial Revolution did is their
social disruptiveness.  Though it brought many social changes, the
Industrial Revolution was not fighting the principle that bigger
is better.  Quite the opposite: the two dovetailed beautifully.
The new industrial companies adapted the customs of existing large
organizations like the military and the civil service, and the
resulting hybrid worked well.  "Captains of industry" issued orders
to "armies of workers," and everyone knew what they were supposed
to do.Startups seem to go more against the grain, socially.  It's hard
for them to flourish in societies that value hierarchy and stability,
just as it was hard for industrialization to flourish in societies
ruled by people who stole at will from the merchant class.  But
there were already a handful of countries past that stage when the
Industrial Revolution happened.   There do not seem to be that many
ready this time.Notes[1]
One of the bizarre consequences of this model was that the usual
way to make more money was to become a manager.  This is one of the
things startups fix.[2]
There are a lot of reasons American car companies have been
doing so much worse than Japanese car companies, but at least one
of them is a cause for optimism: American graduates have more
options.[3]
It's possible that companies will one day be able to grow big
in revenues without growing big in people, but we are not very far
along that trend yet.[4]
Lecuyer, Christophe, Making Silicon Valley, MIT Press, 2006.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Paul Buchheit, Jessica Livingston,
and Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

November 2008One of the differences between big companies and startups is that
big companies tend to have developed procedures to protect themselves
against mistakes.  A startup walks like a toddler, bashing
into things and falling over all the time.  A big company is more
deliberate.The gradual accumulation of checks in an organization is a kind of
learning, based on disasters that have happened to it or others
like it.  After giving a contract to a supplier who goes bankrupt
and fails to deliver, for example, a company might require all
suppliers to prove they're solvent before submitting bids.As companies grow they invariably get more such checks, either in
response to disasters they've suffered, or (probably more often)
by hiring people from bigger companies who bring with them customs
for protecting against new types of disasters.It's natural for organizations to learn from mistakes.  The problem
is, people who propose new checks almost never consider that the
check itself has a cost.Every check has a cost. For example, consider the case of making
suppliers verify their solvency.  Surely that's mere prudence?  But
in fact it could have substantial costs.  There's obviously the
direct cost in time of the people on both sides who supply and check
proofs of the supplier's solvency.  But the real costs are the ones
you never hear about: the company that would be the best supplier,
but doesn't bid because they can't spare the effort to get verified.
Or the company that would be the best supplier, but falls just short
of the threshold for solvency—which will of course have been set
on the high side, since there is no apparent cost of increasing it.Whenever someone in an organization proposes to add a new check,
they should have to explain not just the benefit but the cost.  No
matter how bad a job they did of analyzing it, this meta-check would
at least remind everyone there had to be a cost, and send them
looking for it.If companies started doing that, they'd find some surprises.  Joel
Spolsky recently spoke at Y Combinator about selling software to
corporate customers.  He said that in most companies software costing
up to about $1000 could be bought by individual managers without
any additional approvals.  Above that threshold, software purchases
generally had to be approved by a committee.  But babysitting this
process was so expensive for software vendors that it didn't make
sense to charge less than $50,000.  Which means if you're making
something you might otherwise have charged $5000 for, you have to
sell it for $50,000 instead.The purpose of the committee is presumably to ensure that the company
doesn't waste money. And yet the result is that the company pays
10 times as much.Checks on purchases will always be expensive, because the harder
it is to sell something to you, the more it has to cost.  And not
merely linearly, either.  If you're hard enough to sell to, the
people who are best at making things don't want to bother.  The
only people who will sell to you are companies that specialize in
selling to you.  Then you've sunk to a whole new level of inefficiency.
Market mechanisms no longer protect you, because the good suppliers
are no longer in the market.Such things happen constantly to the biggest organizations of all,
governments.  But checks instituted by governments can cause much
worse problems than merely overpaying.  Checks instituted by
governments can cripple a country's whole economy.  Up till about
1400, China was richer and more technologically advanced than Europe.
One reason Europe pulled ahead was that the Chinese government
restricted long trading voyages.  So it was left to the Europeans
to explore and eventually to dominate the rest of the world, including
China.In more recent times, Sarbanes-Oxley has practically destroyed the
US IPO market.  That wasn't the intention of the legislators who
wrote it.  They just wanted to add a few more checks on public
companies.  But they forgot to consider the cost.  They forgot that
companies about to go public are usually rather stretched, and that
the weight of a few extra checks that might be easy for General
Electric to bear are enough to prevent younger companies from being
public at all.Once you start to think about the cost of checks, you can start to
ask other interesting questions. Is the cost increasing or decreasing?
Is it higher in some areas than others?  Where does it increase
discontinuously?  If large organizations started to ask questions
like that, they'd learn some frightening things.I think the cost of checks may actually be increasing.  The reason
is that software plays an increasingly important role in companies,
and the people who write software are particularly harmed by checks.Programmers are unlike many types of workers in that the best ones
actually prefer to work hard.  This doesn't seem to be the case in
most types of work.  When I worked in fast food, we didn't prefer
the busy times.  And when I used to mow lawns, I definitely didn't
prefer it when the grass was long after a week of rain.Programmers, though, like it better when they write more code.  Or
more precisely, when they release more code.  Programmers like to
make a difference.  Good ones, anyway.For good programmers, one of the best things about working for a
startup is that there are few checks on releases.  In true startups,
there are no external checks at all.  If you have an idea for a new
feature in the morning, you can write it and push it to the production
servers before lunch.  And when you can do that, you have more
ideas.At big companies, software has to go through various approvals
before it can be launched.  And the cost of doing this can be
enormous—in fact, discontinuous.  I was talking recently to a
group of three programmers whose startup had been acquired a few
years before by a big company.  When they'd been independent, they
could release changes instantly.  Now, they said, the absolute
fastest they could get code released on the production servers was
two weeks.This didn't merely make them less productive.  It made them hate
working for the acquirer.Here's a sign of how much programmers like to be able to work hard:
these guys would have paid to be able to release code immediately,
the way they used to.  I asked them if they'd trade 10% of the
acquisition price for the ability to release code immediately, and
all three instantly said yes.  Then I asked what was the maximum
percentage of the acquisition price they'd trade for it.  They said
they didn't want to think about it, because they didn't want to
know how high they'd go, but I got the impression it might be as
much as half.They'd have sacrificed hundreds of thousands of dollars, perhaps
millions, just to be able to deliver more software to users.  And
you know what?  It would have been perfectly safe to let them.  In
fact, the acquirer would have been better off; not only wouldn't
these guys have broken anything, they'd have gotten a lot more done.
So the acquirer is in fact getting worse performance at greater
cost.  Just like the committee approving software purchases.And just as the greatest danger of being hard to sell to is not
that you overpay but that the best suppliers won't even sell to
you, the greatest danger of applying too many checks to your
programmers is not that you'll make them unproductive, but that
good programmers won't even want to work for you.Steve Jobs's famous maxim "artists ship" works both ways.  Artists
aren't merely capable of shipping.  They insist on it.  So if you
don't let people ship, you won't have any artists.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


October 2008The economic situation is apparently so grim that some experts fear
we may be in for a stretch as bad as the mid seventies.When Microsoft and Apple were founded.As those examples suggest, a recession may not be such a bad time
to start a startup.  I'm not claiming it's a particularly good time
either.  The truth is more boring: the state of the economy doesn't
matter much either way.If we've learned one thing from funding so many startups, it's that
they succeed or fail based on the qualities of the founders.  The
economy has some effect, certainly, but as a predictor of success
it's rounding error compared to the founders.Which means that what matters is who you are, not when you do it.
If you're the right sort of person, you'll win even in a bad economy.
And if you're not, a good economy won't save you.  Someone who
thinks "I better not start a startup now, because the economy is
so bad" is making the same mistake as the people who thought during
the Bubble "all I have to do is start a startup, and I'll be rich."So if you want to improve your chances, you should think far more
about who you can recruit as a cofounder than the state of the
economy.  And if you're worried about threats to the survival of
your company, don't look for them in the news.  Look in the mirror.But for any given team of founders, would it not pay to wait till
the economy is better before taking the leap?  If you're starting
a restaurant, maybe, but not if you're working on technology.
Technology progresses more or less independently of the stock market.
So for any given idea, the payoff for acting fast in a bad economy
will be higher than for waiting.  Microsoft's first product was a
Basic interpreter for the Altair.  That was exactly what the world
needed in 1975, but if Gates and Allen had decided to wait a few
years, it would have been too late.Of course, the idea you have now won't be the last you have.  There
are always new ideas.  But if you have a specific idea you want to
act on, act now.That doesn't mean you can ignore the economy.  Both customers and investors
will be feeling pinched.  It's not necessarily a problem if customers
feel pinched: you may even be able to benefit from it, by making
things that save money.  
Startups often make things cheaper, so in
that respect they're better positioned to prosper in a recession
than big companies.Investors are more of a problem.  Startups generally need to raise
some amount of external funding, and investors tend to be less
willing to invest in bad times.  They shouldn't be.  Everyone knows
you're supposed to buy when times are bad and sell when times are
good.  But of course what makes investing so counterintuitive is
that in equity markets, good times are defined as everyone thinking
it's time to buy.  You have to be a contrarian to be correct, and
by definition only a minority of investors can be.So just as investors in 1999 were tripping over one another trying
to buy into lousy startups, investors in 2009 will presumably be
reluctant to invest even in good ones.You'll have to adapt to this.  But that's nothing new: startups
always have to adapt to the whims of investors.  Ask any founder
in any economy if they'd describe investors as fickle, and watch
the face they make.  Last year you had to be prepared to explain
how your startup was viral.  Next year you'll have to explain how
it's recession-proof.(Those are both good things to be.  The mistake investors make is
not the criteria they use but that they always tend to focus on one
to the exclusion of the rest.)Fortunately the way to make a startup recession-proof is to do
exactly what you should do anyway: run it as cheaply as possible.
For years I've been telling founders that the surest route to success
is to be the cockroaches of the corporate world.  The immediate
cause of death in a startup is always running out of money. So the
cheaper your company is to operate, the harder it is to kill.
And fortunately it has gotten very cheap to run a startup. A recession
will if anything make it cheaper still.If nuclear winter really is here, it may be safer to be a cockroach
even than to keep your job.  Customers may drop off individually
if they can no longer afford you, but you're not going to lose them
all at once; markets don't "reduce headcount."What if you quit your job to start a startup that fails, and you
can't find another?  That could be a problem if you work in sales or
marketing.  In those fields it can take months to find a new
job in a bad economy.  But hackers seem to be more liquid.  Good
hackers can always get some kind of job.  It might not be your dream
job, but you're not going to starve.Another advantage of bad times is that there's less competition.
Technology trains leave the station at regular intervals.  If 
everyone else is cowering in a corner, you may have a whole car to
yourself.You're an investor too.  As a founder, you're buying stock with
work: the reason Larry and Sergey are so rich is not so much that
they've done work worth tens of billions of dollars, but that they
were the first investors in Google.  And like any investor you
should buy when times are bad.Were you nodding in agreement, thinking "stupid investors" a few
paragraphs ago when I was talking about how investors are reluctant
to put money into startups in bad markets, even though that's the
time they should rationally be most willing to buy?  Well, founders
aren't much better.  When times get bad, hackers go to grad school.
And no doubt that will happen this time too.  In fact, what makes
the preceding paragraph true is that most readers won't believe
it—at least to the extent of acting on it.So maybe a recession is a good time to start a startup.  It's hard
to say whether advantages like lack of competition outweigh
disadvantages like reluctant investors.  But it doesn't matter much
either way.   It's the people that matter.  And for a given set of
people working on a given technology, the time to act is always
now.Russian TranslationChinese TranslationJapanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

Want to start a startup?  Get funded by
Y Combinator.


August 2008Raising money is the second hardest part of starting a startup.
The hardest part is making something people want: most startups
that die, die because they didn't do that.  But the second biggest
cause of death is probably the difficulty of raising money.
Fundraising is brutal.One reason it's so brutal is simply the brutality of markets.  People
who've spent most of their lives in schools or big companies may
not have been exposed to that.  Professors and bosses usually feel
some sense of responsibility toward you; if you make a valiant
effort and fail, they'll cut you a break.  Markets are less forgiving.
Customers don't care how hard you worked, only whether you solved
their problems.Investors evaluate startups the way customers evaluate products,
not the way bosses evaluate employees.  If you're making a valiant
effort and failing, maybe they'll invest in your next startup, but
not this one.But raising money from investors is harder than selling to
customers, because there are so few of them.  There's
nothing like an efficient market.  You're unlikely to have more
than 10 who are interested; it's difficult to talk to more.  So the
randomness of any one investor's behavior can really affect you.Problem number 3: investors are very random.  All investors, including
us, are by ordinary standards incompetent.  We constantly have to
make decisions about things we don't understand, and more often
than not we're wrong.And yet a lot is at stake.  The amounts invested by different types
of investors vary from five thousand dollars to fifty million, but
the amount usually seems large for whatever type of investor it is.
Investment decisions are big decisions.That combination—making big decisions about things they don't
understand—tends to make investors very skittish.  VCs are notorious
for leading founders on.  Some of the more unscrupulous do it
deliberately.  But even the most well-intentioned investors can
behave in a way that would seem crazy in everyday life.  One day
they're full of enthusiasm and seem ready to write you a check on
the spot; the next they won't return your phone calls.  They're not
playing games with you.  They just can't make up their minds.
[1]If that weren't bad enough, these wildly fluctuating nodes are all
linked together.  Startup investors all know one another, and (though
they hate to admit it) the biggest factor in their opinion of you
is the opinion of other investors.  
[2]
Talk about a recipe for
an unstable system.  You get the opposite of the damping that the
fear/greed balance usually produces in markets.  No one is interested
in a startup that's a "bargain" because everyone else hates it.So the inefficient market you get because there are so few players
is exacerbated by the fact that they act less than independently.
The result is a system like some kind of primitive, multi-celled
sea creature, where you irritate one extremity and the whole thing
contracts violently.Y Combinator is working to fix this.  We're trying to increase the
number of investors just as we're increasing the number of startups.
We hope that as the number of both increases we'll get something
more like an efficient market.  As t approaches infinity, Demo Day
approaches an auction.Unfortunately, t is still very far from infinity.  What does a
startup do now, in the imperfect world we currently inhabit? The
most important thing is not to let fundraising get you down.  Startups
live or die on morale.  If you let the difficulty of raising money
destroy your morale, it will become a self-fulfilling prophecy.Bootstrapping (= Consulting)Some would-be founders may by now be thinking, why deal with investors
at all?  If raising money is so painful, why do it?One answer to that is obvious: because you need money to live on.
It's a fine idea in principle to finance your startup with its own
revenues, but you can't create instant customers.  Whatever you
make, you have to sell a certain amount to break even.  It will
take time to grow your sales to that point, and it's hard to predict,
till you try, how long it will take.We could not have bootstrapped Viaweb, for example.  We charged
quite a lot for our software—about $140 per user per month—but
it was at least a year before our revenues would have covered even
our paltry costs.  We didn't have enough saved to live on for a
year.If you factor out the "bootstrapped" companies that were actually
funded by their founders through savings or a day job, the remainder
either (a) got really lucky, which is hard to do on demand, or (b)
began life as consulting companies and gradually transformed
themselves into product companies.Consulting is the only option you can count on.  But consulting is
far from free money.  It's not as painful as raising money from
investors, perhaps, but the pain is spread over a longer period.
Years, probably.  And for many types of startup, that delay could
be fatal.  If you're working on something so unusual that no one
else is likely to think of it, you can take your time.  Joshua
Schachter gradually built Delicious on the side while working on
Wall Street.  He got away with it because no one else realized it
was a good idea.  But if you were building something as obviously
necessary as online store software at about the same time as Viaweb,
and you were working on it on the side while spending most of your
time on client work, you were not in a good position.Bootstrapping sounds great in principle, but this apparently verdant
territory is one from which few startups emerge alive.  The mere
fact that bootstrapped startups tend to be famous on that account
should set off alarm bells.  If it worked so well, it would be the
norm.
[3]
Bootstrapping may get easier, because starting a company is getting
cheaper.  But I don't think we'll ever reach the point where most
startups can do without outside funding.  Technology tends to
get dramatically cheaper, but living expenses don't.The upshot is, you can choose your pain: either the short, sharp
pain of raising money, or the chronic ache of consulting.  For a
given total amount of pain, raising money is the better choice,
because new technology is usually more valuable now than later.But although for most startups raising money will be the lesser
evil, it's still a pretty big evil—so big that it can easily kill
you.  Not merely in the obvious sense that if you fail to raise
money you might have to shut the company down, but because the
process of raising money itself can kill you.To survive it you need a set of techniques mostly
orthogonal to the ones used in convincing investors, just as mountain
climbers need to know survival techniques that are mostly orthogonal
to those used in physically getting up and down mountains.1. Have low expectations.The reason raising money destroys so many startups' morale is not
simply that it's hard, but that it's so much harder than they
expected.  What kills you is the disappointment.  And the lower
your expectations, the harder it is to be disappointed.Startup founders tend to be optimistic.  This can work well in
technology, at least some of the time, but it's the wrong way to
approach raising money.  Better to assume investors will always let
you down.  Acquirers too, while we're at it.  At YC one of our
secondary mantras is "Deals fall through."  No matter what deal
you have going on, assume it will fall through.  The predictive
power of this simple rule is amazing.There will be a tendency, as a deal progresses, to start to believe
it will happen, and then to depend on it happening.  You must resist
this.  Tie yourself to the mast.  This is what kills you.  Deals
do not have a trajectory like most other human interactions, where
shared plans solidify linearly over time.  Deals often fall through
at the last moment.  Often the other party doesn't really think
about what they want till the last moment.  So you can't use your
everyday intuitions about shared plans as a guide.  When it comes
to deals, you have to consciously turn them off and become
pathologically cynical.This is harder to do than it sounds.  It's very flattering when
eminent investors seem interested in funding you.  It's easy to
start to believe that raising money will be quick and straightforward.
But it hardly ever is.2. Keep working on your startup.It sounds obvious to say that you should keep working on your startup
while raising money.  Actually this is hard to do.  Most startups
don't manage to.Raising money has a mysterious capacity to suck up all your attention.
Even if you only have one meeting a day with investors, somehow
that one meeting will burn up your whole day.  It costs not just
the time of the actual meeting, but the time getting there and back,
and the time preparing for it beforehand and thinking about it
afterward.The best way to survive the distraction of meeting with investors
is probably to partition the company: to pick one founder to deal
with investors while the others keep the company going.  This works
better when a startup has 3 founders than 2, and better when the
leader of the company is not also the lead developer.  In the best
case, the company keeps moving forward at about half speed.That's the best case, though.  More often than not the company comes
to a standstill while raising money.  And that is dangerous for so
many reasons.  Raising money always takes longer than you expect.
What seems like it's going to be a 2 week interruption turns into
a 4 month interruption.  That can be very demoralizing.  And worse
still, it can make you less attractive to investors.  They want to
invest in companies that are dynamic.  A company that hasn't done
anything new in 4 months doesn't seem dynamic, so they start to
lose interest.  Investors rarely grasp this, but much of what
they're responding to when they lose interest in a startup is the
damage done by their own indecision.The solution: put the startup first.  Fit meetings with investors
into the spare moments in your development schedule, rather than
doing development in the spare moments between meetings with
investors.  If you keep the company moving forward—releasing new
features, increasing traffic, doing deals, getting written 
about—those investor meetings are more likely to be productive.  Not just
because your startup will seem more alive, but also because it will
be better for your own morale, which is one of the main ways investors
judge you.3. Be conservative.As conditions get worse, the optimal strategy becomes more conservative.
When things go well you can take risks; when things are bad you
want to play it safe.I advise approaching fundraising as if it were always going badly.
The reason is that between your ability to delude yourself and the
wildly unstable nature of the system you're dealing with, things
probably either already are or could easily become much worse than
they seem.What I tell most startups we fund is that if someone reputable
offers you funding on reasonable terms, take it.  There have been
startups that ignored this advice and got away with it—startups
that ignored a good offer in the hope of getting a better one, and
actually did.  But in the same position I'd give the same advice
again.  Who knows how many bullets were in the gun they were playing
Russian roulette with?Corollary: if an investor seems interested, don't just let them
sit. You can't assume someone interested in investing will stay
interested.  In fact, you can't even tell (they can't even tell)
if they're really interested till you try to convert that interest
into money.  So if you have hot prospect, either close them now or
write them off.  And unless you already have enough funding, that
reduces to: close them now.Startups don't win by getting great funding rounds, but by making
great products.  So finish raising money and get
back to work.4. Be flexible.There are two questions VCs ask that you shouldn't answer: "Who
else are you talking to?" and "How much are you trying to raise?"VCs don't expect you to answer the first question. They ask it just
in case. 
[4]
They do seem to expect an answer to the second.  But
I don't think you should just tell them a number.  Not as a way to
play games with them, but because you shouldn't have a fixed
amount you need to raise.The custom of a startup needing a fixed amount of funding is an
obsolete one left over from the days when startups were more
expensive.  A company that needed to build a factory or hire 50
people obviously needed to raise a certain minimum amount.  But few
technology startups are in that position today.We advise startups to tell investors there are several different
routes they could take depending on how much they raised.  As little
as $50k could pay for food and rent for the founders for a year.
A couple hundred thousand would let them get office space and hire
some smart people they know from school.  A couple million would
let them really blow this thing out.  The message (and not just the
message, but the fact) should be: we're going to succeed no matter
what.  Raising more money just lets us do it faster.If you're raising an angel round, the size of the round can even
change on the fly.  In fact, it's just as well to make the round
small initially, then expand as needed, rather than trying to raise
a large round and risk losing the investors you already have if you
can't raise the full amount.  You may even want to do a "rolling
close," where the round has no predetermined size, but instead you
sell stock to investors one at a time as they say yes.  That helps
break deadlocks, because you can start as soon as the first one
is ready to buy. 
[5]5. Be independent.A startup with a couple founders in their early twenties can have
expenses so low that they could be profitable on
as little as $2000 per month.  That's negligible as corporate
revenues go, but the effect on your morale and your bargaining
position is anything but.  At YC we use the phrase "ramen profitable"
to describe the situation where you're making just enough to pay
your living expenses.  Once you cross into ramen profitable,
everything changes.  You may still need investment to make it big,
but you don't need it this month.You can't plan when you start a startup how long
it will take to become profitable.  But if you find yourself in a
position where a little more effort expended on sales would carry
you over the threshold of ramen profitable, do it.Investors like it when you're ramen profitable.  It shows you've
thought about making money, instead of just working on amusing
technical problems; it shows you have the discipline to keep your
expenses low; but above all, it means you don't need them.There is nothing investors like more than a startup that seems like
it's going to succeed even without them.  Investors like it when
they can help a startup, but they don't like startups that would
die without that help.At YC we spend a lot of time trying to predict how the startups we've
funded will do, because we're trying to learn how to pick winners.
We've now watched the trajectories of so many startups that we're
getting better at predicting them.  And when we're talking
about startups we think are likely to succeed, what we find ourselves
saying is things like "Oh, those guys can take care of themselves.
They'll be fine." Not "those guys are really smart" or
"those guys are working on a great idea."
[6]
When we predict good outcomes for startups, the qualities
that come up in the supporting arguments are toughness, adaptability,
determination.  Which means to the extent we're correct, those are
the qualities you need to win.Investors know this, at least unconsciously.   The reason they like
it when you don't need them is not simply that they like what they
can't have, but because that quality is what makes founders succeed.Sam Altman 
has it.  You could parachute him into an island full of
cannibals and come back in 5 years and he'd be the king.  If you're
Sam Altman, you don't have to be profitable to convey to investors
that you'll succeed with or without them.  (He wasn't, and he did.)
Not everyone has Sam's deal-making ability.  I myself don't.  But
if you don't, you can let the numbers speak for you.6. Don't take rejection personally.Getting rejected by investors can make you start to doubt yourself.
After all, they're more experienced than you.  If they think your
startup is lame, aren't they probably right?Maybe, maybe not.  The way to handle rejection is with precision.
You shouldn't simply ignore rejection.  It might mean something.
But you shouldn't automatically get demoralized either.To understand what rejection means, you have to understand first
of all how common it is.  Statistically, the average VC is a rejection
machine.  David Hornik, a partner at August, told me:

  The numbers for me ended up being something like 500 to 800 plans
  received and read, somewhere between 50 and 100 initial 1 hour
  meetings held, about 20 companies that I got interested in, about
  5 that I got serious about and did a bunch of work, 1 to 2 deals
  done in a year.  So the odds are against you.  You
  may be a great entrepreneur, working on interesting stuff, etc.
  but it is still incredibly unlikely that you get funded.

This is less true with angels, but VCs reject practically everyone.
The structure of their business means a partner does at most 2 new
investments a year, no matter how many good startups approach him.In addition to the odds being terrible, the average investor is,
as I mentioned, a pretty bad judge of startups.  It's harder to
judge startups than most other things, because great startup ideas
tend to seem wrong. A good startup idea has to be not just good but
novel.  And to be both good and novel, an idea probably has to seem
bad to most people, or someone would already be doing it and it
wouldn't be novel.That makes judging startups harder than most other things one judges.
You have to be an intellectual contrarian to be a good startup
investor.  That's a problem for VCs, most of whom are not particularly
imaginative.  VCs are mostly money guys, not people who make things.
[7]
Angels are better at appreciating novel ideas, because most
were founders themselves.So when you get a rejection, use the data that's in it, and not what's
not.  If an investor gives you specific reasons for not investing,
look at your startup and ask if they're right.  If they're real
problems, fix them.  But don't just take their word for it.  You're
supposed to be the domain expert; you have to decide.Though a rejection doesn't necessarily tell you anything about your
startup, it does suggest your pitch could be improved.  Figure out
what's not working and change it.  Don't just think "investors are
stupid."  Often they are, but figure out precisely where you lose
them.Don't let rejections pile up as a depressing, undifferentiated heap.
Sort them and analyze them, and then instead of thinking "no one
likes us," you'll know precisely how big a problem you have, and
what to do about it.7. Be able to downshift into consulting (if appropriate).Consulting, as I mentioned, is a dangerous way to finance a startup.
But it's better than dying.  It's a bit like anaerobic respiration:
not the optimum solution for the long term, but it can save you
from an immediate threat.  If you're having trouble raising money
from investors at all, it could save you to be able to shift
toward consulting.This works better for some startups than others.  It wouldn't have
been a natural fit for, say, Google, but if your company was making
software for building web sites, you could degrade fairly gracefully
into consulting by building sites for clients with it.So long as you were careful not to get sucked permanently into
consulting, this could even have advantages.  You'd understand your
users well if you were using the software for them.  Plus as a
consulting company you might be able to get big-name users using
your software that you wouldn't have gotten as a product company.At Viaweb we were forced to operate like a consulting company
initially, because we were so desperate for users that we'd offer
to build merchants' sites for them if they'd sign up. 
But we never charged for such work, because we didn't want them to
start treating us like actual consultants, and calling us every
time they wanted something changed on their site.  We knew we had
to stay a product company, because only
that scales.8. Avoid inexperienced investors.Though novice investors seem unthreatening they can be the most
dangerous sort, because they're so nervous.  Especially in
proportion to the amount they invest.  Raising $20,000 from a first-time
angel investor can be as much work as raising $2 million from
a VC fund.Their lawyers are generally inexperienced too.  But while the
investors can admit they don't know what they're doing, their lawyers
can't.  One YC startup negotiated terms for a tiny round with
an angel, only to receive a 70-page agreement from his lawyer.  And
since the lawyer could never admit, in front of his client, that
he'd screwed up, he instead had to insist on retaining all the
draconian terms in it, so the deal fell through.Of course, someone has to take money from novice investors, or there
would never be any experienced ones.  But if you do, either (a)
drive the process yourself, including supplying the 
paperwork, or
(b) use them only to fill up a larger round led by someone else.9. Know where you stand.The most dangerous thing about investors is their indecisiveness.
The worst case scenario is the long no, the no that comes after
months of meetings.  Rejections from investors are like design
flaws: inevitable, but much less costly if you discover them early.So while you're talking to investors, constantly look for signs of
where you stand.  How likely are they to offer you a term sheet?
What do they have to be convinced of first?  You shouldn't necessarily
always be asking these questions outright—that could get 
annoying—but you should always be collecting data about them.Investors tend to resist committing except to the extent you push
them to.  It's in their interest to collect the maximum amount of
information while making the minimum number of decisions.  The best
way to force them to act is, of course, competing investors.  But
you can also apply some force by focusing the discussion:
by asking what specific questions they need answered to make
up their minds, and then answering them.  If you get through several
obstacles and they keep raising new ones, assume that ultimately
they're going to flake.You have to be disciplined when collecting data about investors'
intentions.  Otherwise their desire to lead you on will combine
with your own desire to be led on to produce completely inaccurate
impressions.Use the data to weight your strategy.
You'll probably be talking to several investors.  Focus on the ones
that are most likely to say yes.  The value of a potential investor
is a combination of how good it would be if they said yes, and how
likely they are to say it.  Put the most weight on the second factor.
Partly because the most important quality in an investor is simply
investing.  But also because, as I mentioned, the biggest factor
in investors' opinion of you is other investors' opinion of you.
If you're talking to several investors and you manage to get one
over the threshold of saying yes, it will make the others much more
interested.  So you're not sacrificing the lukewarm investors if
you focus on the hot ones; convincing the hot investors is the best
way to convince the lukewarm ones.FutureI'm hopeful things won't always be so awkward. I hope that as startups
get cheaper and the number of investors increases, raising money
will become, if not easy, at least straightforward.In the meantime, the brokenness of the funding process offers a big
opportunity.  Most investors have no idea how dangerous they are.
They'd be surprised to hear that raising money from them is something
that has to be treated as a threat to a company's survival.  They
just think they need a little more information to make up their
minds.  They don't get that there are 10 other investors who also
want a little more information, and that the process of talking to
them all can bring a startup to a standstill for months.Because investors don't understand the cost of dealing with them,
they don't realize how much room there is for a potential competitor
to undercut them.  I know from my own experience how much faster
investors could decide, because we've brought our own time down to
20 minutes (5 minutes of reading an application plus a 10 minute
interview plus 5 minutes of discussion).  If you were investing
more money you'd want to take longer, of course.  But if we can
decide in 20 minutes, should it take anyone longer than a couple
days?Opportunities like this don't sit unexploited forever, even in an
industry as conservative as venture capital.  So
either existing investors will start to make up their minds faster,
or new investors will emerge who do.In the meantime founders have to treat raising money as a dangerous
process.  Fortunately, I can fix the biggest danger right here.
The biggest danger is surprise.  It's that startups will underestimate
the difficulty of raising money—that they'll cruise through all
the initial steps, but when they turn to raising money they'll find
it surprisingly hard, get demoralized, and give up. So I'm telling
you in advance: raising money is hard.Notes[1]
When investors can't make up their minds, they sometimes
describe it as if it were a property of the startup.  "You're too
early for us," they sometimes say.  But which of them, if they were
taken back in a time machine to the hour Google was founded, wouldn't
offer to invest at any valuation the founders chose?  An hour old
is not too early if it's the right startup.  What "you're too early"
really means is "we can't figure out yet whether you'll succeed."
[2]
Investors influence one another both directly and indirectly.
They influence one another directly through the "buzz" that surrounds
a hot startup.  But they also influence one another indirectly
through the founders.  When a lot of investors are interested in
you, it increases your confidence in a way that makes you much more
attractive to investors.No VC will admit they're influenced by buzz.  Some genuinely aren't.
But there are few who can say they're not influenced by confidence.[3]
One VC who read this essay wrote:"We try to avoid companies that got bootstrapped with consulting. 
It creates very bad behaviors/instincts that are hard to erase 
from a company's culture."[4]
The optimal way to answer the first question is to say that
it would be improper to name names, while simultaneously implying
that you're talking to a bunch of other VCs who are all about to
give you term sheets.  If you're the sort of person who understands
how to do that, go ahead.  If not, don't even try.  Nothing annoys
VCs more than clumsy efforts to manipulate them.[5]
The disadvantage of expanding a round on the fly is that the
valuation is fixed at the start, so if you get a sudden rush of
interest, you may have to decide between turning some investors
away and selling more of the company than you meant to.  That's a
good problem to have, however.[6]
I wouldn't say that intelligence doesn't matter in startups.
We're only comparing YC startups, who've already made it over a
certain threshold.[7]
But not all are.  Though most VCs are suits at heart,
the most successful ones tend not to be.  Oddly enough,
the best VCs tend to be the least VC-like.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, David Hornik, Jessica Livingston,
Robert Morris, and Fred Wilson for reading drafts of this.Russian Translation
