NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

December 2020To celebrate Airbnb's IPO and to help future founders, I thought
it might be useful to explain what was special about Airbnb.What was special about the Airbnbs was how earnest they were. They
did nothing half-way, and we could sense this even in the interview.
Sometimes after we interviewed a startup we'd be uncertain what to
do, and have to talk it over. Other times we'd just look at one
another and smile. The Airbnbs' interview was that kind. We didn't
even like the idea that much. Nor did users, at that stage; they
had no growth. But the founders seemed so full of energy that it
was impossible not to like them.That first impression was not misleading. During the batch our
nickname for Brian Chesky was The Tasmanian Devil, because like the
cartoon
character he seemed a tornado of energy. All three of them were
like that. No one ever worked harder during YC than the Airbnbs
did. When you talked to the Airbnbs, they took notes. If you suggested
an idea to them in office hours, the next time you talked to them
they'd not only have implemented it, but also implemented two new
ideas they had in the process. "They probably have the best attitude
of any startup we've funded" I wrote to Mike Arrington during the
batch.They're still like that. Jessica and I had dinner with Brian in the
summer of 2018, just the three of us. By this point the company is
ten years old. He took a page of notes about ideas for new things
Airbnb could do.What we didn't realize when we first met Brian and Joe and Nate was
that Airbnb was on its last legs. After working on the company for
a year and getting no growth, they'd agreed to give it one last
shot. They'd try this Y Combinator thing, and if the company still
didn't take off, they'd give up.Any normal person would have given up already. They'd been funding
the company with credit cards. They had a binder full of
credit cards they'd maxed out. Investors didn't think much of the
idea. One investor they met in a cafe walked out in the middle of
meeting with them. They thought he was going to the bathroom, but
he never came back. "He didn't even finish his smoothie," Brian
said. And now, in late 2008, it was the worst recession in decades.
The stock market was in free fall and wouldn't hit bottom for another
four months.Why hadn't they given up? This is a useful question to ask. People,
like matter, reveal their nature under extreme conditions. One thing
that's clear is that they weren't doing this just for the money.
As a money-making scheme, this was pretty lousy: a year's work and
all they had to show for it was a binder full of maxed-out credit
cards. So why were they still working on this startup? Because of
the experience they'd had as the first hosts.When they first tried renting out airbeds on their floor during a
design convention, all they were hoping for was to make enough money
to pay their rent that month. But something surprising happened:
they enjoyed having those first three guests staying with them. And
the guests enjoyed it too. Both they and the guests had done it
because they were in a sense forced to, and yet they'd all had a
great experience. Clearly there was something new here: for hosts,
a new way to make money that had literally been right under their
noses, and for guests, a new way to travel that was in many ways
better than hotels.That experience was why the Airbnbs didn't give up. They knew they'd
discovered something. They'd seen a glimpse of the future, and they
couldn't let it go.They knew that once people tried staying in what is now called "an
airbnb," they would also realize that this was the future. But only
if they tried it, and they weren't. That was the problem during Y
Combinator: to get growth started.Airbnb's goal during YC was to reach what we call ramen profitability,
which means making enough money that the company can pay the founders'
living expenses, if they live on ramen noodles. Ramen profitability
is not, obviously, the end goal of any startup, but it's the most
important threshold on the way, because this is the point where
you're airborne. This is the point where you no longer need investors'
permission to continue existing. For the Airbnbs, ramen profitability
was $4000 a month: $3500 for rent, and $500 for food. They taped
this goal to the mirror in the bathroom of their apartment.The way to get growth started in something like Airbnb is to focus
on the hottest subset of the market. If you can get growth started
there, it will spread to the rest. When I asked the Airbnbs where
there was most demand, they knew from searches: New York City. So
they focused on New York. They went there in person to visit their
hosts and help them make their listings more attractive. A big part
of that was better pictures. So Joe and Brian rented a professional
camera and took pictures of the hosts' places themselves.This didn't just make the listings better. It also taught them about
their hosts. When they came back from their first trip to New York,
I asked what they'd noticed about hosts that surprised them, and
they said the biggest surprise was how many of the hosts were in
the same position they'd been in: they needed this money to pay
their rent. This was, remember, the worst recession in decades, and
it had hit New York first. It definitely added to the Airbnbs' sense
of mission to feel that people needed them.In late January 2009, about three weeks into Y Combinator, their
efforts started to show results, and their numbers crept upward.
But it was hard to say for sure whether it was growth or just random
fluctuation. By February it was clear that it was real growth. They
made $460 in fees in the first week of February, $897 in the second,
and $1428 in the third. That was it: they were airborne. Brian sent
me an email on February 22 announcing that they were ramen profitable
and giving the last three weeks' numbers."I assume you know what you've now set yourself up for next week,"
I responded.Brian's reply was seven words: "We are not going to slow down."

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

August 2020Some politicians are proposing to introduce wealth taxes in addition
to income and capital gains taxes. Let's try modeling the effects of various levels
of wealth tax to see what they would mean in practice for a startup
founder.Suppose you start a successful startup in your twenties, and then
live for another 60 years. How much of your stock will a wealth tax
consume?If the wealth tax applies to all your assets, it's easy to
calculate its effect. A wealth tax of 1% means you get to keep
99% of your stock each year. After 60 years the proportion
of stock you'll have left will be .99^60, or .547. So a
straight 1% wealth tax means the government will over the
course of your life take 45% of your stock.(Losing shares does not, obviously, mean becoming net
poorer unless the value per share is increasing by less than the 
wealth tax rate.)Here's how much stock the government would take over 60
years at various levels of wealth tax:
wealth taxgovernment takes0.1%6%0.5%26%1.0%45%2.0%70%3.0%84%4.0%91%5.0%95%

A wealth tax will usually have a threshold at which it starts.
How much difference would a high threshold make? To model that,
we need to make some assumptions about the initial value of
your stock and the growth rate.Suppose your stock is initially
worth $2 million, and the company's trajectory is as follows:
the value of your stock grows 3x for 2 years, then 2x for 2 years,
then 50% for 2 years, after
which you just get a typical public company growth rate,
which we'll call 8%. 
[1]
Suppose the wealth tax threshold is
$50 million. How much stock does the government take now?

wealth taxgovernment takes0.1%5%0.5%23%1.0%41%2.0%65%3.0%79%4.0%88%5.0%93%

It may at first seem surprising that such apparently small tax rates
produce such dramatic effects. A 2% wealth tax with a $50 million
threshold takes about two thirds of a successful founder's stock.The reason wealth taxes have such dramatic effects is that they're
applied over and over to the same money. Income tax
happens every year, but only to that year's income. Whereas if you
live for 60 years after acquiring some asset, a wealth tax will tax
that same asset 60 times. A wealth tax compounds.Note[1]
In practice, eventually some of this 8% would come in the form of 
dividends, which are taxed as income at issue, so this model actually
represents the most optimistic case for the founder.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

April 2020I recently saw a 
video 
of TV journalists and politicians confidently
saying that the coronavirus would be no worse than the flu. What
struck me about it was not just how mistaken they seemed, but how
daring. How could they feel safe saying such things?The answer, I realized, is that they didn't think they could get
caught. They didn't realize there was any danger in making false
predictions. These people constantly make false predictions, and
get away with it, because the things they make predictions about
either have mushy enough outcomes that they can bluster their way
out of trouble, or happen so far in the future that few remember
what they said.An epidemic is different. It falsifies your predictions rapidly and
unequivocally.But epidemics are rare enough that these people clearly
didn't realize this was even a possibility. Instead they just
continued to use their ordinary m.o., which, as the epidemic has
made clear, is to talk confidently about things they don't
understand.An event like this is thus a uniquely powerful way of taking people's
measure. As Warren Buffett said, "It's only when the tide goes out
that you learn who's been swimming naked." And the tide has just
gone out like never before.Now that we've seen the results, let's remember what we saw, because
this is the most accurate test of credibility we're ever likely to have. I hope.Finnish TranslationGerman TranslationFrench Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

January 2020When I was young, I thought old people had everything figured out.
Now that I'm old, I know this isn't true.I constantly feel like a noob. It seems like I'm always talking to
some startup working in a new field I know nothing about, or reading
a book about a topic I don't understand well enough, or visiting some new
country where I don't know how things work.It's not pleasant to feel like a noob. And the word "noob" is
certainly not a compliment. And yet today I realized something
encouraging about being a noob: the more of a noob you are locally,
the less of a noob you are globally.For example, if you stay in your home country, you'll feel less
of a noob than if you move to Farawavia, where everything works
differently. And yet you'll know more if you move.
So the feeling of being a noob is inversely correlated with actual
ignorance.But if the feeling of being a noob is good for us, why do we dislike
it? What evolutionary purpose could such an aversion serve?I think the answer is that there are two sources of feeling like a
noob: being stupid, and doing something novel. Our dislike of feeling
like a noob is our brain telling us "Come on, come on, figure this
out." Which was the right thing to be thinking for most of human
history. The life of hunter-gatherers was complex, but it didn't
change as much as life does now. They didn't suddenly have to figure
out what to do about cryptocurrency. So it made sense to be biased
toward competence at existing problems over the discovery of new
ones. It made sense for humans to dislike the feeling of being a
noob, just as, in a world where food was scarce, it made sense for
them to dislike the feeling of being hungry.Now that too much food is more of a problem than too little, our
dislike of feeling hungry leads us astray. And I think our dislike
of feeling like a noob does too.Though it feels unpleasant, and people will sometimes ridicule you
for it, the more you feel like a noob, the better.Japanese TranslationArabic TranslationFrench TranslationKorean TranslationPolish TranslationChinese TranslationSerbian TranslationFrench Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

January 2020(I originally intended this for startup founders, who are often
surprised by the attention they get as their companies grow, but
it applies equally to anyone who becomes famous.)If you become sufficiently famous, you'll acquire some fans who
like you too much. These people are sometimes called "fanboys," and
though I dislike that term, I'm going to have to use it here.  We
need some word for them, because this is a distinct phenomenon from
someone simply liking your work.A fanboy is obsessive and uncritical. Liking you becomes part of
their identity, and they create an image of you in their own head
that is much better than reality. Everything you do is good, because
you do it. If you do something bad, they find a way to see it as
good. And their love for you is not, usually, a quiet, private one.
They want everyone to know how great you are.Well, you may be thinking, I could do without this kind of obsessive
fan, but I know there are all kinds of people in the world, and if
this is the worst consequence of fame, that's not so bad.Unfortunately this is not the worst consequence of fame. As well
as fanboys, you'll have haters.A hater is obsessive and uncritical. Disliking you becomes part of
their identity, and they create an image of you in their own head
that is much worse than reality. Everything you do is bad, because
you do it. If you do something good, they find a way to see it as
bad. And their dislike for you is not, usually, a quiet, private
one. They want everyone to know how awful you are.If you're thinking of checking, I'll save you the trouble. The
second and fifth paragraphs are identical except for "good" being
switched to "bad" and so on.I spent years puzzling about haters.  What are they, and where do
they come from? Then one day it dawned on me. Haters are just fanboys
with the sign switched.Note that by haters, I don't simply mean trolls. I'm not talking about 
people who say bad things about you and then move on. I'm talking
about the much smaller group of people for whom this becomes a 
kind of obsession and who do it repeatedly over a long period.Like fans, haters seem to be an automatic consequence of fame.
Anyone sufficiently famous will have them. And like fans, haters
are energized by the fame of whoever they hate. They hear a song
by some pop singer. They don't like it much. If the singer were an
obscure one, they'd just forget about it. But instead they keep
hearing her name, and this seems to drive some people crazy.
Everyone's always going on about this singer, but she's no good!
She's a fraud!That word "fraud" is an important one. It's the spectral signature
of a hater to regard the object of their hatred as a 
fraud. They
can't deny their fame. Indeed, their fame is if anything exaggerated
in the hater's mind. They notice every mention of the singer's name,
because every mention makes them angrier. In their own minds they
exaggerate both the singer's fame and her lack of talent, and the
only way to reconcile those two ideas is to conclude that she has
tricked everyone.What sort of people become haters? Can anyone become one? I'm not
sure about this, but I've noticed some patterns. Haters are generally
losers in a very specific sense: although they are occasionally
talented, they have never achieved much. And indeed, anyone
successful enough to have achieved significant fame would be unlikely
to regard another famous person as a fraud on that account, because
anyone famous knows how random fame is.But haters are not always complete losers. They are not always the
proverbial guy living in his mom's basement. Many are, but some
have some amount of talent. In fact I suspect that a sense of
frustrated talent is what drives some people to become haters.
They're not just saying "It's unfair that so-and-so is famous," but
"It's unfair that so-and-so is famous, and not me."Could a hater be cured if they achieved something impressive? My
guess is that's a moot point, because they 
never will. I've been
able to observe for long enough that I'm fairly confident the pattern
works both ways: not only do people who do great work never become
haters, haters never do great work. Although I dislike the word
"fanboy," it's evocative of something important about both haters
and fanboys. It implies that the fanboy is so slavishly predictable in his admiration
that he's diminished as a result, that he's less than a man.Haters seem even more diminished. I can imagine being a fanboy.
I can think of people whose work I admire so much that I could abase
myself before them out of sheer gratitude. If P. G.  Wodehouse were
still alive, I could see myself being a Wodehouse fanboy. But I
could not imagine being a hater.Knowing that haters are just fanboys with the sign bit flipped makes
it much easier to deal with them. We don't need a separate theory
of haters. We can just use existing techniques for dealing with
obsessive fans.The most important of which is simply not to think much about them.
If you're like most people who become famous enough to acquire
haters, your initial reaction will be one of mystification. Why
does this guy seem to have it in for me? Where does his obsessive
energy come from, and what makes him so appallingly nasty? What did
I do to set him off? Is it something I can fix?The mistake here is to think of the hater as someone you have a
dispute with. When you have a dispute with someone, it's usually a
good idea to try to understand why they're upset and then fix things
if you can. Disputes are distracting. But it's a false analogy to
think of a hater as someone you have a dispute with.  It's an
understandable mistake, if you've never encountered haters before.
But when you realize that you're dealing with a hater, and what a
hater is, it's clear that it's a waste of time even to think about
them. If you have obsessive fans, do you spend any time wondering
what makes them love you so much? No, you just think "some
people are kind of crazy," and that's the end of it.Since haters are equivalent to fanboys, that's the way to deal with
them too. There may have been something that set them off. But it's
not something that would have set off a normal person, so there's
no reason to spend any time thinking about it. It's not you, it's
them.Notes[1] There are of course some people who are genuine frauds. How can
you distinguish between x calling y a fraud because x is a hater,
and because y is a fraud? Look at neutral opinion. Actual frauds
are usually pretty conspicuous. Thoughtful people are rarely taken
in by them. So if there are some thoughtful people who like y, you
can usually assume y is not a fraud.[2] I would make an exception for teenagers, who sometimes act in
such extreme ways that they are literally not themselves. I can
imagine a teenage kid being a hater and then growing out of it. But
not anyone over 25.[3] I have a much worse memory for misdeeds than my wife Jessica,
who is a connoisseur of character, but I don't wish it were better.
Most disputes are a waste of time even if you're in the right, and
it's easy to bury the hatchet with someone if you can't remember
why you were mad at them.[4] A competent hater will not merely attack you individually but
will try to get mobs after you. In some cases you may want to refute
whatever bogus claim they made in order to do so. But err on the
side of not, because ultimately it probably won't matter.Thanks to Austen Allred, Trevor Blackwell, Patrick Collison,
Christine Ford, Daniel Gackle, Jessica Livingston, Robert Morris, 
Elon Musk, Harj Taggar, and Peter Thiel for reading drafts of this.Japanese TranslationArabic TranslationPolish Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

November 2019If you discover something new, there's a significant chance you'll be
accused of some form of heresy.To discover new things, you have
to work on ideas that are good but non-obvious; if an idea is
obviously good, other people are probably already working on it.
One common way for a good idea to be non-obvious is for it to be hidden in the
shadow of some mistaken assumption that people are very attached to.
But anything you discover from working on such an idea will tend to
contradict the mistaken assumption that was concealing it.  And you
will thus get a lot of heat from people attached to the mistaken
assumption. Galileo and Darwin are famous examples of this phenomenon,
but it's probably always an ingredient in the resistance to new
ideas.So it's particularly dangerous for an organization or society to
have a culture of pouncing on heresy.  When you suppress heresies,
you don't just prevent people from contradicting the mistaken
assumption you're trying to protect. You also suppress any idea
that implies indirectly that it's false.
Every cherished mistaken assumption has
a dead zone of unexplored ideas around it.  And the more preposterous
the assumption, the bigger the dead zone it creates.There is a positive side to this phenomenon though.  If you're
looking for new ideas, one way to find them is by looking for
heresies.  When you look at the question this way, the depressingly
large dead zones around mistaken assumptions become excitingly large
mines of new ideas.Japanese TranslationRussian TranslationSimplified Chinese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

NA

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

September 2017The most valuable insights are both general and surprising. 
F = ma for example. But general and surprising is a hard
combination to achieve. That territory tends to be picked
clean, precisely because those insights are so valuable.Ordinarily, the best that people can do is one without the
other: either surprising without being general (e.g.
gossip), or general without being surprising (e.g.
platitudes).Where things get interesting is the moderately valuable
insights.  You get those from small additions of whichever
quality was missing.  The more common case is a small
addition of generality: a piece of gossip that's more than
just gossip, because it teaches something interesting about
the world. But another less common approach is to focus on
the most general ideas and see if you can find something new
to say about them. Because these start out so general, you
only need a small delta of novelty to produce a useful
insight.A small delta of novelty is all you'll be able to get most
of the time. Which means if you take this route, your ideas
will seem a lot like ones that already exist. Sometimes
you'll find you've merely rediscovered an idea that did
already exist.  But don't be discouraged.  Remember the huge
multiplier that kicks in when you do manage to think of
something even a little new.Corollary: the more general the ideas you're talking about,
the less you should worry about repeating yourself.  If you
write enough, it's inevitable you will.  Your brain is much
the same from year to year and so are the stimuli that hit
it. I feel slightly bad when I find I've said something
close to what I've said before, as if I were plagiarizing
myself. But rationally one shouldn't.  You won't say
something exactly the same way the second time, and that
variation increases the chance you'll get that tiny but
critical delta of novelty.And of course, ideas beget ideas.  (That sounds 
familiar.)
An idea with a small amount of novelty could lead to one
with more. But only if you keep going. So it's doubly
important not to let yourself be discouraged by people who
say there's not much new about something you've discovered.
"Not much new" is a real achievement when you're talking
about the most general ideas. It's not true that there's nothing new under the sun.  There
are some domains where there's almost nothing new.  But
there's a big difference between nothing and almost nothing,
when it's multiplied by the area under the sun.Thanks to Sam Altman, Patrick Collison, and Jessica
Livingston for reading drafts of this.Japanese Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

January 2017People who are powerful but uncharismatic will tend to be disliked.
Their power makes them a target for criticism that they don't have
the charisma to disarm. That was Hillary Clinton's problem. It also
tends to be a problem for any CEO who is more of a builder than a
schmoozer. And yet the builder-type CEO is (like Hillary) probably
the best person for the job.I don't think there is any solution to this problem. It's human
nature. The best we can do is to recognize that it's happening, and
to understand that being a magnet for criticism is sometimes a sign
not that someone is the wrong person for a job, but that they're
the right one.
