New: 

How to Earn a Billion Dollars |
The Brand Age


Want to start a startup? Get funded by Y Combinator.



© mmxxvi pg

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

July 2023If you collected lists of techniques for doing great work in a lot
of different fields, what would the intersection look like? I decided
to find out by making it.Partly my goal was to create a guide that could be used by someone
working in any field. But I was also curious about the shape of the
intersection. And one thing this exercise shows is that it does
have a definite shape; it's not just a point labelled "work hard."The following recipe assumes you're very ambitious.
The first step is to decide what to work on. The work you choose
needs to have three qualities: it has to be something you have a
natural aptitude for, that you have a deep interest in, and that
offers scope to do great work.In practice you don't have to worry much about the third criterion.
Ambitious people are if anything already too conservative about it.
So all you need to do is find something you have an aptitude for
and great interest in.
[1]That sounds straightforward, but it's often quite difficult. When
you're young you don't know what you're good at or what different
kinds of work are like. Some kinds of work you end up doing may not
even exist yet. So while some people know what they want to do at
14, most have to figure it out.The way to figure out what to work on is by working. If you're not
sure what to work on, guess. But pick something and get going.
You'll probably guess wrong some of the time, but that's fine. It's
good to know about multiple things; some of the biggest discoveries
come from noticing connections between different fields.Develop a habit of working on your own projects. Don't let "work"
mean something other people tell you to do. If you do manage to do
great work one day, it will probably be on a project of your own.
It may be within some bigger project, but you'll be driving your
part of it.What should your projects be? Whatever seems to you excitingly
ambitious. As you grow older and your taste in projects evolves,
exciting and important will converge. At 7 it may seem excitingly
ambitious to build huge things out of Lego, then at 14 to teach
yourself calculus, till at 21 you're starting to explore unanswered
questions in physics. But always preserve excitingness.There's a kind of excited curiosity that's both the engine and the
rudder of great work. It will not only drive you, but if you let
it have its way, will also show you what to work on.What are you excessively curious about — curious to a degree that
would bore most other people? That's what you're looking for.Once you've found something you're excessively interested in, the
next step is to learn enough about it to get you to one of the
frontiers of knowledge. Knowledge expands fractally, and from a
distance its edges look smooth, but once you learn enough to get
close to one, they turn out to be full of gaps.The next step is to notice them. This takes some skill, because
your brain wants to ignore such gaps in order to make a simpler
model of the world. Many discoveries have come from asking questions
about things that everyone else took for granted. 
[2]If the answers seem strange, so much the better. Great work often
has a tincture of strangeness. You see this from painting to math.
It would be affected to try to manufacture it, but if it appears,
embrace it.Boldly chase outlier ideas, even if other people aren't interested
in them — in fact, especially if they aren't. If you're excited
about some possibility that everyone else ignores, and you have
enough expertise to say precisely what they're all overlooking,
that's as good a bet as you'll find.
[3]Four steps: choose a field, learn enough to get to the frontier,
notice gaps, explore promising ones. This is how practically everyone
who's done great work has done it, from painters to physicists.Steps two and four will require hard work. It may not be possible
to prove that you have to work hard to do great things, but the
empirical evidence is on the scale of the evidence for mortality.
That's why it's essential to work on something you're deeply
interested in. Interest will drive you to work harder than mere
diligence ever could.The three most powerful motives are curiosity, delight, and the
desire to do something impressive. Sometimes they converge, and
that combination is the most powerful of all.The big prize is to discover a new fractal bud. You notice a crack
in the surface of knowledge, pry it open, and there's a whole world
inside.Let's talk a little more about the complicated business of figuring
out what to work on. The main reason it's hard is that you can't
tell what most kinds of work are like except by doing them. Which
means the four steps overlap: you may have to work at something for
years before you know how much you like it or how good you are at
it. And in the meantime you're not doing, and thus not learning
about, most other kinds of work. So in the worst case you choose
late based on very incomplete information.
[4]The nature of ambition exacerbates this problem. Ambition comes in
two forms, one that precedes interest in the subject and one that
grows out of it. Most people who do great work have a mix, and the
more you have of the former, the harder it will be to decide what
to do.The educational systems in most countries pretend it's easy. They
expect you to commit to a field long before you could know what
it's really like. And as a result an ambitious person on an optimal
trajectory will often read to the system as an instance of breakage.It would be better if they at least admitted it — if they admitted
that the system not only can't do much to help you figure out what
to work on, but is designed on the assumption that you'll somehow
magically guess as a teenager. They don't tell you, but I will:
when it comes to figuring out what to work on, you're on your own.
Some people get lucky and do guess correctly, but the rest will
find themselves scrambling diagonally across tracks laid down on
the assumption that everyone does.What should you do if you're young and ambitious but don't know
what to work on? What you should not do is drift along passively,
assuming the problem will solve itself. You need to take action.
But there is no systematic procedure you can follow. When you read
biographies of people who've done great work, it's remarkable how
much luck is involved. They discover what to work on as a result
of a chance meeting, or by reading a book they happen to pick up.
So you need to make yourself a big target for luck, and the way to
do that is to be curious. Try lots of things, meet lots of people,
read lots of books, ask lots of questions.
[5]When in doubt, optimize for interestingness. Fields change as you
learn more about them. What mathematicians do, for example, is very
different from what you do in high school math classes. So you need
to give different types of work a chance to show you what they're
like. But a field should become increasingly interesting as you
learn more about it. If it doesn't, it's probably not for you.Don't worry if you find you're interested in different things than
other people. The stranger your tastes in interestingness, the
better. Strange tastes are often strong ones, and a strong taste
for work means you'll be productive. And you're more likely to find
new things if you're looking where few have looked before.One sign that you're suited for some kind of work is when you like
even the parts that other people find tedious or frightening.But fields aren't people; you don't owe them any loyalty. If in the
course of working on one thing you discover another that's more
exciting, don't be afraid to switch.If you're making something for people, make sure it's something
they actually want. The best way to do this is to make something
you yourself want. Write the story you want to read; build the tool
you want to use. Since your friends probably have similar interests,
this will also get you your initial audience.This should follow from the excitingness rule. Obviously the most
exciting story to write will be the one you want to read. The reason
I mention this case explicitly is that so many people get it wrong.
Instead of making what they want, they try to make what some
imaginary, more sophisticated audience wants. And once you go down
that route, you're lost.
[6]There are a lot of forces that will lead you astray when you're
trying to figure out what to work on. Pretentiousness, fashion,
fear, money, politics, other people's wishes, eminent frauds. But
if you stick to what you find genuinely interesting, you'll be proof
against all of them. If you're interested, you're not astray.
Following your interests may sound like a rather passive strategy,
but in practice it usually means following them past all sorts of
obstacles. You usually have to risk rejection and failure. So it
does take a good deal of boldness.But while you need boldness, you don't usually need much planning.
In most cases the recipe for doing great work is simply: work hard
on excitingly ambitious projects, and something good will come of
it. Instead of making a plan and then executing it, you just try
to preserve certain invariants.The trouble with planning is that it only works for achievements
you can describe in advance. You can win a gold medal or get rich
by deciding to as a child and then tenaciously pursuing that goal,
but you can't discover natural selection that way.I think for most people who want to do great work, the right strategy
is not to plan too much. At each stage do whatever seems most
interesting and gives you the best options for the future. I call
this approach "staying upwind." This is how most people who've done
great work seem to have done it.
Even when you've found something exciting to work on, working on
it is not always straightforward. There will be times when some new
idea makes you leap out of bed in the morning and get straight to
work. But there will also be plenty of times when things aren't
like that.You don't just put out your sail and get blown forward by inspiration.
There are headwinds and currents and hidden shoals. So there's a
technique to working, just as there is to sailing.For example, while you must work hard, it's possible to work too
hard, and if you do that you'll find you get diminishing returns:
fatigue will make you stupid, and eventually even damage your health.
The point at which work yields diminishing returns depends on the
type. Some of the hardest types you might only be able to do for
four or five hours a day.Ideally those hours will be contiguous. To the extent you can, try
to arrange your life so you have big blocks of time to work in.
You'll shy away from hard tasks if you know you might be interrupted.It will probably be harder to start working than to keep working.
You'll often have to trick yourself to get over that initial
threshold. Don't worry about this; it's the nature of work, not a
flaw in your character. Work has a sort of activation energy, both
per day and per project. And since this threshold is fake in the
sense that it's higher than the energy required to keep going, it's
ok to tell yourself a lie of corresponding magnitude to get over
it.It's usually a mistake to lie to yourself if you want to do great
work, but this is one of the rare cases where it isn't. When I'm
reluctant to start work in the morning, I often trick myself by
saying "I'll just read over what I've got so far." Five minutes
later I've found something that seems mistaken or incomplete, and
I'm off.Similar techniques work for starting new projects. It's ok to lie
to yourself about how much work a project will entail, for example.
Lots of great things began with someone saying "How hard could it
be?"This is one case where the young have an advantage. They're more
optimistic, and even though one of the sources of their optimism
is ignorance, in this case ignorance can sometimes beat knowledge.Try to finish what you start, though, even if it turns out to be
more work than you expected. Finishing things is not just an exercise
in tidiness or self-discipline. In many projects a lot of the best
work happens in what was meant to be the final stage.Another permissible lie is to exaggerate the importance of what
you're working on, at least in your own mind. If that helps you
discover something new, it may turn out not to have been a lie after
all.
[7]
Since there are two senses of starting work — per day and per
project — there are also two forms of procrastination. Per-project
procrastination is far the more dangerous. You put off starting
that ambitious project from year to year because the time isn't
quite right. When you're procrastinating in units of years, you can
get a lot not done.
[8]One reason per-project procrastination is so dangerous is that it
usually camouflages itself as work. You're not just sitting around
doing nothing; you're working industriously on something else. So
per-project procrastination doesn't set off the alarms that per-day
procrastination does. You're too busy to notice it.The way to beat it is to stop occasionally and ask yourself: Am I
working on what I most want to work on? When you're young it's ok
if the answer is sometimes no, but this gets increasingly dangerous
as you get older.
[9]
Great work usually entails spending what would seem to most people
an unreasonable amount of time on a problem. You can't think of
this time as a cost, or it will seem too high. You have to find the
work sufficiently engaging as it's happening.There may be some jobs where you have to work diligently for years
at things you hate before you get to the good part, but this is not
how great work happens. Great work happens by focusing consistently
on something you're genuinely interested in. When you pause to take
stock, you're surprised how far you've come.The reason we're surprised is that we underestimate the cumulative
effect of work. Writing a page a day doesn't sound like much, but
if you do it every day you'll write a book a year. That's the key:
consistency. People who do great things don't get a lot done every
day. They get something done, rather than nothing.If you do work that compounds, you'll get exponential growth. Most
people who do this do it unconsciously, but it's worth stopping to
think about. Learning, for example, is an instance of this phenomenon:
the more you learn about something, the easier it is to learn more.
Growing an audience is another: the more fans you have, the more
new fans they'll bring you.The trouble with exponential growth is that the curve feels flat
in the beginning. It isn't; it's still a wonderful exponential
curve. But we can't grasp that intuitively, so we underrate exponential
growth in its early stages.Something that grows exponentially can become so valuable that it's
worth making an extraordinary effort to get it started. But since
we underrate exponential growth early on, this too is mostly done
unconsciously: people push through the initial, unrewarding phase
of learning something new because they know from experience that
learning new things always takes an initial push, or they grow their
audience one fan at a time because they have nothing better to do.
If people consciously realized they could invest in exponential
growth, many more would do it.
Work doesn't just happen when you're trying to. There's a kind of
undirected thinking you do when walking or taking a shower or lying
in bed that can be very powerful. By letting your mind wander a
little, you'll often solve problems you were unable to solve by
frontal attack.You have to be working hard in the normal way to benefit from this
phenomenon, though. You can't just walk around daydreaming. The
daydreaming has to be interleaved with deliberate work that feeds
it questions.
[10]Everyone knows to avoid distractions at work, but it's also important
to avoid them in the other half of the cycle. When you let your
mind wander, it wanders to whatever you care about most at that
moment. So avoid the kind of distraction that pushes your work out
of the top spot, or you'll waste this valuable type of thinking on
the distraction instead. (Exception: Don't avoid love.)
Consciously cultivate your taste in the work done in your field.
Until you know which is the best and what makes it so, you don't
know what you're aiming for.And that is what you're aiming for, because if you don't try to
be the best, you won't even be good. This observation has been made
by so many people in so many different fields that it might be worth
thinking about why it's true. It could be because ambition is a
phenomenon where almost all the error is in one direction — where
almost all the shells that miss the target miss by falling short.
Or it could be because ambition to be the best is a qualitatively
different thing from ambition to be good. Or maybe being good is
simply too vague a standard. Probably all three are true.
[11]Fortunately there's a kind of economy of scale here. Though it might
seem like you'd be taking on a heavy burden by trying to be the
best, in practice you often end up net ahead. It's exciting, and
also strangely liberating. It simplifies things. In some ways it's
easier to try to be the best than to try merely to be good.One way to aim high is to try to make something that people will
care about in a hundred years. Not because their opinions matter
more than your contemporaries', but because something that still
seems good in a hundred years is more likely to be genuinely good.
Don't try to work in a distinctive style. Just try to do the best
job you can; you won't be able to help doing it in a distinctive
way.Style is doing things in a distinctive way without trying to. Trying
to is affectation.Affectation is in effect to pretend that someone other than you is
doing the work. You adopt an impressive but fake persona, and while
you're pleased with the impressiveness, the fakeness is what shows
in the work.
[12]The temptation to be someone else is greatest for the young. They
often feel like nobodies. But you never need to worry about that
problem, because it's self-solving if you work on sufficiently
ambitious projects. If you succeed at an ambitious project, you're
not a nobody; you're the person who did it. So just do the work and
your identity will take care of itself.
"Avoid affectation" is a useful rule so far as it goes, but how
would you express this idea positively? How would you say what to
be, instead of what not to be? The best answer is earnest. If you're
earnest you avoid not just affectation but a whole set of similar
vices.The core of being earnest is being intellectually honest. We're
taught as children to be honest as an unselfish virtue — as a kind
of sacrifice. But in fact it's a source of power too. To see new
ideas, you need an exceptionally sharp eye for the truth. You're
trying to see more truth than others have seen so far. And how can
you have a sharp eye for the truth if you're intellectually dishonest?One way to avoid intellectual dishonesty is to maintain a slight
positive pressure in the opposite direction. Be aggressively willing
to admit that you're mistaken. Once you've admitted you were mistaken
about something, you're free. Till then you have to carry it.
[13]Another more subtle component of earnestness is informality.
Informality is much more important than its grammatically negative
name implies. It's not merely the absence of something. It means
focusing on what matters instead of what doesn't.What formality and affectation have in common is that as well as
doing the work, you're trying to seem a certain way as you're doing
it. But any energy that goes into how you seem comes out of being
good. That's one reason nerds have an advantage in doing great work:
they expend little effort on seeming anything. In fact that's
basically the definition of a nerd.Nerds have a kind of innocent boldness that's exactly what you need
in doing great work. It's not learned; it's preserved from childhood.
So hold onto it. Be the one who puts things out there rather than
the one who sits back and offers sophisticated-sounding criticisms
of them. "It's easy to criticize" is true in the most literal sense,
and the route to great work is never easy.There may be some jobs where it's an advantage to be cynical and
pessimistic, but if you want to do great work it's an advantage to
be optimistic, even though that means you'll risk looking like a
fool sometimes. There's an old tradition of doing the opposite. The
Old Testament says it's better to keep quiet lest you look like a
fool. But that's advice for seeming smart. If you actually want
to discover new things, it's better to take the risk of telling
people your ideas.Some people are naturally earnest, and with others it takes a
conscious effort. Either kind of earnestness will suffice. But I
doubt it would be possible to do great work without being earnest.
It's so hard to do even if you are. You don't have enough margin
for error to accommodate the distortions introduced by being affected,
intellectually dishonest, orthodox, fashionable, or cool.
[14]
Great work is consistent not only with who did it, but with itself.
It's usually all of a piece. So if you face a decision in the middle
of working on something, ask which choice is more consistent.You may have to throw things away and redo them. You won't necessarily
have to, but you have to be willing to. And that can take some
effort; when there's something you need to redo, status quo bias
and laziness will combine to keep you in denial about it. To beat
this ask: If I'd already made the change, would I want to revert
to what I have now?Have the confidence to cut. Don't keep something that doesn't fit
just because you're proud of it, or because it cost you a lot of
effort.Indeed, in some kinds of work it's good to strip whatever you're
doing to its essence. The result will be more concentrated; you'll
understand it better; and you won't be able to lie to yourself about
whether there's anything real there.Mathematical elegance may sound like a mere metaphor, drawn from
the arts. That's what I thought when I first heard the term "elegant"
applied to a proof. But now I suspect it's conceptually prior — 
that the main ingredient in artistic elegance is mathematical
elegance. At any rate it's a useful standard well beyond math.Elegance can be a long-term bet, though. Laborious solutions will
often have more prestige in the short term. They cost a lot of
effort and they're hard to understand, both of which impress people,
at least temporarily.Whereas some of the very best work will seem like it took comparatively
little effort, because it was in a sense already there. It didn't
have to be built, just seen. It's a very good sign when it's hard
to say whether you're creating something or discovering it.When you're doing work that could be seen as either creation or
discovery, err on the side of discovery. Try thinking of yourself
as a mere conduit through which the ideas take their natural shape.(Strangely enough, one exception is the problem of choosing a problem
to work on. This is usually seen as search, but in the best case
it's more like creating something. In the best case you create the
field in the process of exploring it.)Similarly, if you're trying to build a powerful tool, make it
gratuitously unrestrictive. A powerful tool almost by definition
will be used in ways you didn't expect, so err on the side of
eliminating restrictions, even if you don't know what the benefit
will be.Great work will often be tool-like in the sense of being something
others build on. So it's a good sign if you're creating ideas that
others could use, or exposing questions that others could answer.
The best ideas have implications in many different areas.If you express your ideas in the most general form, they'll be truer
than you intended.
True by itself is not enough, of course. Great ideas have to be
true and new. And it takes a certain amount of ability to see new
ideas even once you've learned enough to get to one of the frontiers
of knowledge.In English we give this ability names like originality, creativity,
and imagination. And it seems reasonable to give it a separate name,
because it does seem to some extent a separate skill. It's possible
to have a great deal of ability in other respects — to have a great
deal of what's often called technical ability — and yet not have
much of this.I've never liked the term "creative process." It seems misleading.
Originality isn't a process, but a habit of mind. Original thinkers
throw off new ideas about whatever they focus on, like an angle
grinder throwing off sparks. They can't help it.If the thing they're focused on is something they don't understand
very well, these new ideas might not be good. One of the most
original thinkers I know decided to focus on dating after he got
divorced. He knew roughly as much about dating as the average 15
year old, and the results were spectacularly colorful. But to see
originality separated from expertise like that made its nature all
the more clear.I don't know if it's possible to cultivate originality, but there
are definitely ways to make the most of however much you have. For
example, you're much more likely to have original ideas when you're
working on something. Original ideas don't come from trying to have
original ideas. They come from trying to build or understand something
slightly too difficult.
[15]Talking or writing about the things you're interested in is a good
way to generate new ideas. When you try to put ideas into words, a
missing idea creates a sort of vacuum that draws it out of you.
Indeed, there's a kind of thinking that can only be done by writing.Changing your context can help. If you visit a new place, you'll
often find you have new ideas there. The journey itself often
dislodges them. But you may not have to go far to get this benefit.
Sometimes it's enough just to go for a walk.
[16]It also helps to travel in topic space. You'll have more new ideas
if you explore lots of different topics, partly because it gives
the angle grinder more surface area to work on, and partly because
analogies are an especially fruitful source of new ideas.Don't divide your attention evenly between many topics though,
or you'll spread yourself too thin. You want to distribute it
according to something more like a power law.
[17]
Be professionally
curious about a few topics and idly curious about many more.Curiosity and originality are closely related. Curiosity feeds
originality by giving it new things to work on. But the relationship
is closer than that. Curiosity is itself a kind of originality;
it's roughly to questions what originality is to answers. And since
questions at their best are a big component of answers, curiosity
at its best is a creative force.
Having new ideas is a strange game, because it usually consists of
seeing things that were right under your nose. Once you've seen a
new idea, it tends to seem obvious. Why did no one think of this
before?When an idea seems simultaneously novel and obvious, it's probably
a good one.Seeing something obvious sounds easy. And yet empirically having
new ideas is hard. What's the source of this apparent contradiction?
It's that seeing the new idea usually requires you to change the
way you look at the world. We see the world through models that
both help and constrain us. When you fix a broken model, new ideas
become obvious. But noticing and fixing a broken model is hard.
That's how new ideas can be both obvious and yet hard to discover:
they're easy to see after you do something hard.One way to discover broken models is to be stricter than other
people. Broken models of the world leave a trail of clues where
they bash against reality. Most people don't want to see these
clues. It would be an understatement to say that they're attached
to their current model; it's what they think in; so they'll tend
to ignore the trail of clues left by its breakage, however conspicuous
it may seem in retrospect.To find new ideas you have to seize on signs of breakage instead
of looking away. That's what Einstein did. He was able to see the
wild implications of Maxwell's equations not so much because he was
looking for new ideas as because he was stricter.The other thing you need is a willingness to break rules. Paradoxical
as it sounds, if you want to fix your model of the world, it helps
to be the sort of person who's comfortable breaking rules. From the
point of view of the old model, which everyone including you initially
shares, the new model usually breaks at least implicit rules.Few understand the degree of rule-breaking required, because new
ideas seem much more conservative once they succeed. They seem
perfectly reasonable once you're using the new model of the world
they brought with them. But they didn't at the time; it took the
greater part of a century for the heliocentric model to be generally
accepted, even among astronomers, because it felt so wrong.Indeed, if you think about it, a good new idea has to seem bad to
most people, or someone would have already explored it. So what
you're looking for is ideas that seem crazy, but the right kind of
crazy. How do you recognize these? You can't with certainty. Often
ideas that seem bad are bad. But ideas that are the right kind of
crazy tend to be exciting; they're rich in implications; whereas
ideas that are merely bad tend to be depressing.There are two ways to be comfortable breaking rules: to enjoy
breaking them, and to be indifferent to them. I call these two cases
being aggressively and passively independent-minded.The aggressively independent-minded are the naughty ones. Rules
don't merely fail to stop them; breaking rules gives them additional
energy. For this sort of person, delight at the sheer audacity of
a project sometimes supplies enough activation energy to get it
started.The other way to break rules is not to care about them, or perhaps
even to know they exist. This is why novices and outsiders often
make new discoveries; their ignorance of a field's assumptions acts
as a source of temporary passive independent-mindedness. Aspies
also seem to have a kind of immunity to conventional beliefs.
Several I know say that this helps them to have new ideas.Strictness plus rule-breaking sounds like a strange combination.
In popular culture they're opposed. But popular culture has a broken
model in this respect. It implicitly assumes that issues are trivial
ones, and in trivial matters strictness and rule-breaking are
opposed. But in questions that really matter, only rule-breakers
can be truly strict.
An overlooked idea often doesn't lose till the semifinals. You do
see it, subconsciously, but then another part of your subconscious
shoots it down because it would be too weird, too risky, too much
work, too controversial. This suggests an exciting possibility: if
you could turn off such filters, you could see more new ideas.One way to do that is to ask what would be good ideas for someone
else to explore. Then your subconscious won't shoot them down to
protect you.You could also discover overlooked ideas by working in the other
direction: by starting from what's obscuring them. Every cherished
but mistaken principle is surrounded by a dead zone of valuable
ideas that are unexplored because they contradict it.Religions are collections of cherished but mistaken principles. So
anything that can be described either literally or metaphorically
as a religion will have valuable unexplored ideas in its shadow.
Copernicus and Darwin both made discoveries of this type.
[18]What are people in your field religious about, in the sense of being
too attached to some principle that might not be as self-evident
as they think? What becomes possible if you discard it?
People show much more originality in solving problems than in
deciding which problems to solve. Even the smartest can be surprisingly
conservative when deciding what to work on. People who'd never dream
of being fashionable in any other way get sucked into working on
fashionable problems.One reason people are more conservative when choosing problems than
solutions is that problems are bigger bets. A problem could occupy
you for years, while exploring a solution might only take days. But
even so I think most people are too conservative. They're not merely
responding to risk, but to fashion as well. Unfashionable problems
are undervalued.One of the most interesting kinds of unfashionable problem is the
problem that people think has been fully explored, but hasn't.
Great work often takes something that already exists and shows its
latent potential. Durer and Watt both did this. So if you're
interested in a field that others think is tapped out, don't let
their skepticism deter you. People are often wrong about this.Working on an unfashionable problem can be very pleasing. There's
no hype or hurry. Opportunists and critics are both occupied
elsewhere. The existing work often has an old-school solidity. And
there's a satisfying sense of economy in cultivating ideas that
would otherwise be wasted.But the most common type of overlooked problem is not explicitly
unfashionable in the sense of being out of fashion. It just doesn't
seem to matter as much as it actually does. How do you find these?
By being self-indulgent — by letting your curiosity have its way,
and tuning out, at least temporarily, the little voice in your head
that says you should only be working on "important" problems.You do need to work on important problems, but almost everyone is
too conservative about what counts as one. And if there's an important
but overlooked problem in your neighborhood, it's probably already
on your subconscious radar screen. So try asking yourself: if you
were going to take a break from "serious" work to work on something
just because it would be really interesting, what would you do? The
answer is probably more important than it seems.Originality in choosing problems seems to matter even more than
originality in solving them. That's what distinguishes the people
who discover whole new fields. So what might seem to be merely the
initial step — deciding what to work on — is in a sense the key
to the whole game.
Few grasp this. One of the biggest misconceptions about new ideas
is about the ratio of question to answer in their composition.
People think big ideas are answers, but often the real insight was
in the question.Part of the reason we underrate questions is the way they're used
in schools. In schools they tend to exist only briefly before being
answered, like unstable particles. But a really good question can
be much more than that. A really good question is a partial discovery.
How do new species arise? Is the force that makes objects fall to
earth the same as the one that keeps planets in their orbits? By
even asking such questions you were already in excitingly novel
territory.Unanswered questions can be uncomfortable things to carry around
with you. But the more you're carrying, the greater the chance of
noticing a solution — or perhaps even more excitingly, noticing
that two unanswered questions are the same.Sometimes you carry a question for a long time. Great work often
comes from returning to a question you first noticed years before
— in your childhood, even — and couldn't stop thinking about.
People talk a lot about the importance of keeping your youthful
dreams alive, but it's just as important to keep your youthful
questions alive.
[19]This is one of the places where actual expertise differs most from
the popular picture of it. In the popular picture, experts are
certain. But actually the more puzzled you are, the better, so long
as (a) the things you're puzzled about matter, and (b) no one else
understands them either.Think about what's happening at the moment just before a new idea
is discovered. Often someone with sufficient expertise is puzzled
about something. Which means that originality consists partly of
puzzlement — of confusion! You have to be comfortable enough with
the world being full of puzzles that you're willing to see them,
but not so comfortable that you don't want to solve them.
[20]It's a great thing to be rich in unanswered questions. And this is
one of those situations where the rich get richer, because the best
way to acquire new questions is to try answering existing ones.
Questions don't just lead to answers, but also to more questions.
The best questions grow in the answering. You notice a thread
protruding from the current paradigm and try pulling on it, and it
just gets longer and longer. So don't require a question to be
obviously big before you try answering it. You can rarely predict
that. It's hard enough even to notice the thread, let alone to
predict how much will unravel if you pull on it.It's better to be promiscuously curious — to pull a little bit on
a lot of threads, and see what happens. Big things start small. The
initial versions of big things were often just experiments, or side
projects, or talks, which then grew into something bigger. So start
lots of small things.Being prolific is underrated. The more different things you try,
the greater the chance of discovering something new. Understand,
though, that trying lots of things will mean trying lots of things
that don't work. You can't have a lot of good ideas without also
having a lot of bad ones.
[21]Though it sounds more responsible to begin by studying everything
that's been done before, you'll learn faster and have more fun by
trying stuff. And you'll understand previous work better when you
do look at it. So err on the side of starting. Which is easier when
starting means starting small; those two ideas fit together like
two puzzle pieces.How do you get from starting small to doing something great? By
making successive versions. Great things are almost always made in
successive versions. You start with something small and evolve it,
and the final version is both cleverer and more ambitious than
anything you could have planned.It's particularly useful to make successive versions when you're
making something for people — to get an initial version in front
of them quickly, and then evolve it based on their response.Begin by trying the simplest thing that could possibly work.
Surprisingly often, it does. If it doesn't, this will at least get
you started.Don't try to cram too much new stuff into any one version. There
are names for doing this with the first version (taking too long
to ship) and the second (the second system effect), but these are
both merely instances of a more general principle.An early version of a new project will sometimes be dismissed as a
toy. It's a good sign when people do this. That means it has
everything a new idea needs except scale, and that tends to follow.
[22]The alternative to starting with something small and evolving it
is to plan in advance what you're going to do. And planning does
usually seem the more responsible choice. It sounds more organized
to say "we're going to do x and then y and then z" than "we're going
to try x and see what happens." And it is more organized; it just
doesn't work as well.Planning per se isn't good. It's sometimes necessary, but it's a
necessary evil — a response to unforgiving conditions. It's something
you have to do because you're working with inflexible media, or
because you need to coordinate the efforts of a lot of people. If
you keep projects small and use flexible media, you don't have to
plan as much, and your designs can evolve instead.
Take as much risk as you can afford. In an efficient market, risk
is proportionate to reward, so don't look for certainty, but for a
bet with high expected value. If you're not failing occasionally,
you're probably being too conservative.Though conservatism is usually associated with the old, it's the
young who tend to make this mistake. Inexperience makes them fear
risk, but it's when you're young that you can afford the most.Even a project that fails can be valuable. In the process of working
on it, you'll have crossed territory few others have seen, and
encountered questions few others have asked. And there's probably
no better source of questions than the ones you encounter in trying
to do something slightly too hard.
Use the advantages of youth when you have them, and the advantages
of age once you have those. The advantages of youth are energy,
time, optimism, and freedom. The advantages of age are knowledge,
efficiency, money, and power. With effort you can acquire some of
the latter when young and keep some of the former when old.The old also have the advantage of knowing which advantages they
have. The young often have them without realizing it. The biggest
is probably time. The young have no idea how rich they are in time.
The best way to turn this time to advantage is to use it in slightly
frivolous ways: to learn about something you don't need to know
about, just out of curiosity, or to try building something just
because it would be cool, or to become freakishly good at something.That "slightly" is an important qualification. Spend time lavishly
when you're young, but don't simply waste it. There's a big difference
between doing something you worry might be a waste of time and doing
something you know for sure will be. The former is at least a bet,
and possibly a better one than you think.
[23]The most subtle advantage of youth, or more precisely of inexperience,
is that you're seeing everything with fresh eyes. When your brain
embraces an idea for the first time, sometimes the two don't fit
together perfectly. Usually the problem is with your brain, but
occasionally it's with the idea. A piece of it sticks out awkwardly
and jabs you when you think about it. People who are used to the
idea have learned to ignore it, but you have the opportunity not
to.
[24]So when you're learning about something for the first time, pay
attention to things that seem wrong or missing. You'll be tempted
to ignore them, since there's a 99% chance the problem is with you.
And you may have to set aside your misgivings temporarily to keep
progressing. But don't forget about them. When you've gotten further
into the subject, come back and check if they're still there. If
they're still viable in the light of your present knowledge, they
probably represent an undiscovered idea.
One of the most valuable kinds of knowledge you get from experience
is to know what you don't have to worry about. The young know all
the things that could matter, but not their relative importance.
So they worry equally about everything, when they should worry much
more about a few things and hardly at all about the rest.But what you don't know is only half the problem with inexperience.
The other half is what you do know that ain't so. You arrive at
adulthood with your head full of nonsense — bad habits you've
acquired and false things you've been taught — and you won't be
able to do great work till you clear away at least the nonsense in
the way of whatever type of work you want to do.Much of the nonsense left in your head is left there by schools.
We're so used to schools that we unconsciously treat going to school
as identical with learning, but in fact schools have all sorts of
strange qualities that warp our ideas about learning and thinking.For example, schools induce passivity. Since you were a small child,
there was an authority at the front of the class telling all of you
what you had to learn and then measuring whether you did. But neither
classes nor tests are intrinsic to learning; they're just artifacts
of the way schools are usually designed.The sooner you overcome this passivity, the better. If you're still
in school, try thinking of your education as your project, and your
teachers as working for you rather than vice versa. That may seem
a stretch, but it's not merely some weird thought experiment. It's
the truth economically, and in the best case it's the truth
intellectually as well. The best teachers don't want to be your
bosses. They'd prefer it if you pushed ahead, using them as a source
of advice, rather than being pulled by them through the material.Schools also give you a misleading impression of what work is like.
In school they tell you what the problems are, and they're almost
always soluble using no more than you've been taught so far. In
real life you have to figure out what the problems are, and you
often don't know if they're soluble at all.But perhaps the worst thing schools do to you is train you to win
by hacking the test. You can't do great work by doing that. You
can't trick God. So stop looking for that kind of shortcut. The way
to beat the system is to focus on problems and solutions that others
have overlooked, not to skimp on the work itself.
Don't think of yourself as dependent on some gatekeeper giving you
a "big break." Even if this were true, the best way to get it would
be to focus on doing good work rather than chasing influential
people.And don't take rejection by committees to heart. The qualities that
impress admissions officers and prize committees are quite different
from those required to do great work. The decisions of selection
committees are only meaningful to the extent that they're part of
a feedback loop, and very few are.
People new to a field will often copy existing work. There's nothing
inherently bad about that. There's no better way to learn how
something works than by trying to reproduce it. Nor does
copying necessarily make your work unoriginal. Originality is the
presence of new ideas, not the absence of old ones.There's a good way to copy and a bad way. If you're going to copy
something, do it openly instead of furtively, or worse still,
unconsciously. This is what's meant by the famously misattributed
phrase "Great artists steal." The really dangerous kind of copying,
the kind that gives copying a bad name, is the kind that's done
without realizing it, because you're nothing more than a train
running on tracks laid down by someone else. But at the other
extreme, copying can be a sign of superiority rather than subordination.
[25]In many fields it's almost inevitable that your early work will be
in some sense based on other people's. Projects rarely arise in a
vacuum. They're usually a reaction to previous work. When you're
first starting out, you don't have any previous work; if you're
going to react to something, it has to be someone else's. Once
you're established, you can react to your own. But while the former
gets called derivative and the latter doesn't, structurally the two
cases are more similar than they seem.Oddly enough, the very novelty of the most novel ideas sometimes
makes them seem at first to be more derivative than they are. New
discoveries often have to be conceived initially as variations of
existing things, even by their discoverers, because there isn't
yet the conceptual vocabulary to express them.There are definitely some dangers to copying, though. One is that
you'll tend to copy old things — things that were in their day at
the frontier of knowledge, but no longer are.And when you do copy something, don't copy every feature of it.
Some will make you ridiculous if you do. Don't copy the manner of
an eminent 50 year old professor if you're 18, for example, or the
idiom of a Renaissance poem hundreds of years later.Some of the features of things you admire are flaws they succeeded
despite. Indeed, the features that are easiest to imitate are the
most likely to be the flaws.This is particularly true for behavior. Some talented people are
jerks, and this sometimes makes it seem to the inexperienced that
being a jerk is part of being talented. It isn't; being talented
is merely how they get away with it.One of the most powerful kinds of copying is to copy something from
one field into another. History is so full of chance discoveries
of this type that it's probably worth giving chance a hand by
deliberately learning about other kinds of work. You can take ideas
from quite distant fields if you let them be metaphors.Negative examples can be as inspiring as positive ones. In fact you
can sometimes learn more from things done badly than from things
done well; sometimes it only becomes clear what's needed when it's
missing.
If a lot of the best people in your field are collected in one
place, it's usually a good idea to visit for a while. It will
increase your ambition, and also, by showing you that these people
are human, increase your self-confidence.
[26]If you're earnest you'll probably get a warmer welcome than you
might expect. Most people who are very good at something are happy
to talk about it with anyone who's genuinely interested. If they're
really good at their work, then they probably have a hobbyist's
interest in it, and hobbyists always want to talk about their
hobbies.It may take some effort to find the people who are really good,
though. Doing great work has such prestige that in some places,
particularly universities, there's a polite fiction that everyone
is engaged in it. And that is far from true. People within universities
can't say so openly, but the quality of the work being done in
different departments varies immensely. Some departments have people
doing great work; others have in the past; others never have.
Seek out the best colleagues. There are a lot of projects that can't
be done alone, and even if you're working on one that can be, it's
good to have other people to encourage you and to bounce ideas off.Colleagues don't just affect your work, though; they also affect
you. So work with people you want to become like, because you will.Quality is more important than quantity in colleagues. It's better
to have one or two great ones than a building full of pretty good
ones. In fact it's not merely better, but necessary, judging from
history: the degree to which great work happens in clusters suggests
that one's colleagues often make the difference between doing great
work and not.How do you know when you have sufficiently good colleagues? In my
experience, when you do, you know. Which means if you're unsure,
you probably don't. But it may be possible to give a more concrete
answer than that. Here's an attempt: sufficiently good colleagues
offer surprising insights. They can see and do things that you
can't. So if you have a handful of colleagues good enough to keep
you on your toes in this sense, you're probably over the threshold.Most of us can benefit from collaborating with colleagues, but some
projects require people on a larger scale, and starting one of those
is not for everyone. If you want to run a project like that, you'll
have to become a manager, and managing well takes aptitude and
interest like any other kind of work. If you don't have them, there
is no middle path: you must either force yourself to learn management
as a second language, or avoid such projects.
[27]
Husband your morale. It's the basis of everything when you're working
on ambitious projects. You have to nurture and protect it like a
living organism.Morale starts with your view of life. You're more likely to do great
work if you're an optimist, and more likely to if you think of
yourself as lucky than if you think of yourself as a victim.Indeed, work can to some extent protect you from your problems. If
you choose work that's pure, its very difficulties will serve as a
refuge from the difficulties of everyday life. If this is escapism,
it's a very productive form of it, and one that has been used by
some of the greatest minds in history.Morale compounds via work: high morale helps you do good work, which
increases your morale and helps you do even better work. But this
cycle also operates in the other direction: if you're not doing
good work, that can demoralize you and make it even harder to. Since
it matters so much for this cycle to be running in the right
direction, it can be a good idea to switch to easier work when
you're stuck, just so you start to get something done.One of the biggest mistakes ambitious people make is to allow
setbacks to destroy their morale all at once, like a balloon bursting.
You can inoculate yourself against this by explicitly considering
setbacks a part of your process. Solving hard problems always
involves some backtracking.Doing great work is a depth-first search whose root node is the
desire to. So "If at first you don't succeed, try, try again" isn't
quite right. It should be: If at first you don't succeed, either
try again, or backtrack and then try again."Never give up" is also not quite right. Obviously there are times
when it's the right choice to eject. A more precise version would
be: Never let setbacks panic you into backtracking more than you
need to. Corollary: Never abandon the root node.It's not necessarily a bad sign if work is a struggle, any more
than it's a bad sign to be out of breath while running. It depends
how fast you're running. So learn to distinguish good pain from
bad. Good pain is a sign of effort; bad pain is a sign of damage.
An audience is a critical component of morale. If you're a scholar,
your audience may be your peers; in the arts, it may be an audience
in the traditional sense. Either way it doesn't need to be big.
The value of an audience doesn't grow anything like linearly with
its size. Which is bad news if you're famous, but good news if
you're just starting out, because it means a small but dedicated
audience can be enough to sustain you. If a handful of people
genuinely love what you're doing, that's enough.To the extent you can, avoid letting intermediaries come between
you and your audience. In some types of work this is inevitable,
but it's so liberating to escape it that you might be better off
switching to an adjacent type if that will let you go direct.
[28]The people you spend time with will also have a big effect on your
morale. You'll find there are some who increase your energy and
others who decrease it, and the effect someone has is not always
what you'd expect. Seek out the people who increase your energy and
avoid those who decrease it. Though of course if there's someone
you need to take care of, that takes precedence.Don't marry someone who doesn't understand that you need to work,
or sees your work as competition for your attention. If you're
ambitious, you need to work; it's almost like a medical condition;
so someone who won't let you work either doesn't understand you,
or does and doesn't care.Ultimately morale is physical. You think with your body, so it's
important to take care of it. That means exercising regularly,
eating and sleeping well, and avoiding the more dangerous kinds of
drugs. Running and walking are particularly good forms of exercise
because they're good for thinking.
[29]People who do great work are not necessarily happier than everyone
else, but they're happier than they'd be if they didn't. In fact,
if you're smart and ambitious, it's dangerous not to be productive.
People who are smart and ambitious but don't achieve much tend to
become bitter.
It's ok to want to impress other people, but choose the right people.
The opinion of people you respect is signal. Fame, which is the
opinion of a much larger group you might or might not respect, just
adds noise.The prestige of a type of work is at best a trailing indicator and
sometimes completely mistaken. If you do anything well enough,
you'll make it prestigious. So the question to ask about a type of
work is not how much prestige it has, but how well it could be done.Competition can be an effective motivator, but don't let it choose
the problem for you; don't let yourself get drawn into chasing
something just because others are. In fact, don't let competitors
make you do anything much more specific than work harder.Curiosity is the best guide. Your curiosity never lies, and it knows
more than you do about what's worth paying attention to.
Notice how often that word has come up. If you asked an oracle the
secret to doing great work and the oracle replied with a single
word, my bet would be on "curiosity."That doesn't translate directly to advice. It's not enough just to
be curious, and you can't command curiosity anyway. But you can
nurture it and let it drive you.Curiosity is the key to all four steps in doing great work: it will
choose the field for you, get you to the frontier, cause you to
notice the gaps in it, and drive you to explore them. The whole
process is a kind of dance with curiosity.
Believe it or not, I tried to make this essay as short as I could.
But its length at least means it acts as a filter. If you made it
this far, you must be interested in doing great work. And if so
you're already further along than you might realize, because the
set of people willing to want to is small.The factors in doing great work are factors in the literal,
mathematical sense, and they are: ability, interest, effort, and
luck. Luck by definition you can't do anything about, so we can
ignore that. And we can assume effort, if you do in fact want to
do great work. So the problem boils down to ability and interest.
Can you find a kind of work where your ability and interest will
combine to yield an explosion of new ideas?Here there are grounds for optimism. There are so many different
ways to do great work, and even more that are still undiscovered.
Out of all those different types of work, the one you're most suited
for is probably a pretty close match. Probably a comically close
match. It's just a question of finding it, and how far into it your
ability and interest can take you. And you can only answer that by
trying.Many more people could try to do great work than do. What holds
them back is a combination of modesty and fear. It seems presumptuous
to try to be Newton or Shakespeare. It also seems hard; surely if
you tried something like that, you'd fail. Presumably the calculation
is rarely explicit. Few people consciously decide not to try to do
great work. But that's what's going on subconsciously; they shy
away from the question.So I'm going to pull a sneaky trick on you. Do you want to do great
work, or not? Now you have to decide consciously. Sorry about that.
I wouldn't have done it to a general audience. But we already know
you're interested.Don't worry about being presumptuous. You don't have to tell anyone.
And if it's too hard and you fail, so what? Lots of people have
worse problems than that. In fact you'll be lucky if it's the worst
problem you have.Yes, you'll have to work hard. But again, lots of people have to
work hard. And if you're working on something you find very
interesting, which you necessarily will if you're on the right path,
the work will probably feel less burdensome than a lot of your
peers'.The discoveries are out there, waiting to be made. Why not by you?Notes[1]
I don't think you could give a precise definition of what
counts as great work. Doing great work means doing something important
so well that you expand people's ideas of what's possible. But
there's no threshold for importance. It's a matter of degree, and
often hard to judge at the time anyway. So I'd rather people focused
on developing their interests rather than worrying about whether
they're important or not. Just try to do something amazing, and
leave it to future generations to say if you succeeded.[2]
A lot of standup comedy is based on noticing anomalies in
everyday life. "Did you ever notice...?" New ideas come from doing
this about nontrivial things. Which may help explain why people's
reaction to a new idea is often the first half of laughing: Ha![3]
That second qualifier is critical. If you're excited about
something most authorities discount, but you can't give a more
precise explanation than "they don't get it," then you're starting
to drift into the territory of cranks.[4]
Finding something to work on is not simply a matter of finding
a match between the current version of you and a list of known
problems. You'll often have to coevolve with the problem. That's
why it can sometimes be so hard to figure out what to work on. The
search space is huge. It's the cartesian product of all possible
types of work, both known and yet to be discovered, and all possible
future versions of you.There's no way you could search this whole space, so you have to
rely on heuristics to generate promising paths through it and hope
the best matches will be clustered. Which they will not always be;
different types of work have been collected together as much by
accidents of history as by the intrinsic similarities between them.[5]
There are many reasons curious people are more likely to do
great work, but one of the more subtle is that, by casting a wide
net, they're more likely to find the right thing to work on in the
first place.[6]
It can also be dangerous to make things for an audience you
feel is less sophisticated than you, if that causes you to talk
down to them. You can make a lot of money doing that, if you do it
in a sufficiently cynical way, but it's not the route to great work.
Not that anyone using this m.o. would care.[7]
This idea I learned from Hardy's A Mathematician's Apology,
which I recommend to anyone ambitious to do great work, in any
field.[8]
Just as we overestimate what we can do in a day and underestimate
what we can do over several years, we overestimate the damage done
by procrastinating for a day and underestimate the damage done by
procrastinating for several years.[9]
You can't usually get paid for doing exactly what you want,
especially early on. There are two options: get paid for doing work
close to what you want and hope to push it closer, or get paid for
doing something else entirely and do your own projects on the side.
Both can work, but both have drawbacks: in the first approach your
work is compromised by default, and in the second you have to fight
to get time to do it.[10]
If you set your life up right, it will deliver the focus-relax
cycle automatically. The perfect setup is an office you work in and
that you walk to and from.[11]
There may be some very unworldly people who do great work
without consciously trying to. If you want to expand this rule to
cover that case, it becomes: Don't try to be anything except the
best.[12]
This gets more complicated in work like acting, where the
goal is to adopt a fake persona. But even here it's possible to be
affected. Perhaps the rule in such fields should be to avoid
unintentional affectation.[13]
It's safe to have beliefs that you treat as unquestionable
if and only if they're also unfalsifiable. For example, it's safe
to have the principle that everyone should be treated equally under
the law, because a sentence with a "should" in it isn't really a
statement about the world and is therefore hard to disprove. And
if there's no evidence that could disprove one of your principles,
there can't be any facts you'd need to ignore in order to preserve
it.[14]
Affectation is easier to cure than intellectual dishonesty.
Affectation is often a shortcoming of the young that burns off in
time, while intellectual dishonesty is more of a character flaw.[15]
Obviously you don't have to be working at the exact moment
you have the idea, but you'll probably have been working fairly
recently.[16]
Some say psychoactive drugs have a similar effect. I'm
skeptical, but also almost totally ignorant of their effects.[17]
For example you might give the nth most important topic
(m-1)/m^n of your attention, for some m > 1. You couldn't allocate
your attention so precisely, of course, but this at least gives an
idea of a reasonable distribution.[18]
The principles defining a religion have to be mistaken.
Otherwise anyone might adopt them, and there would be nothing to
distinguish the adherents of the religion from everyone else.[19]
It might be a good exercise to try writing down a list of
questions you wondered about in your youth. You might find you're
now in a position to do something about some of them.[20]
The connection between originality and uncertainty causes a
strange phenomenon: because the conventional-minded are more certain
than the independent-minded, this tends to give them the upper hand
in disputes, even though they're generally stupider.

   The best lack all conviction, while the worst
   Are full of passionate intensity.

[21]
Derived from Linus Pauling's "If you want to have good ideas,
you must have many ideas."[22]
Attacking a project as a "toy" is similar to attacking a
statement as "inappropriate." It means that no more substantial
criticism can be made to stick.[23]
One way to tell whether you're wasting time is to ask if
you're producing or consuming. Writing computer games is less likely
to be a waste of time than playing them, and playing games where
you create something is less likely to be a waste of time than
playing games where you don't.[24]
Another related advantage is that if you haven't said anything
publicly yet, you won't be biased toward evidence that supports
your earlier conclusions. With sufficient integrity you could achieve
eternal youth in this respect, but few manage to. For most people,
having previously published opinions has an effect similar to
ideology, just in quantity 1.[25]
In the early 1630s Daniel Mytens made a painting of Henrietta
Maria handing a laurel wreath to Charles I. Van Dyck then painted
his own version to show how much better he was.[26]
I'm being deliberately vague about what a place is. As of
this writing, being in the same physical place has advantages that
are hard to duplicate, but that could change.[27]
This is false when the work the other people have to do is
very constrained, as with SETI@home or Bitcoin. It may be possible
to expand the area in which it's false by defining similarly
restricted protocols with more freedom of action in the nodes.[28]
Corollary: Building something that enables people to go around
intermediaries and engage directly with their audience is probably
a good idea.[29]
It may be helpful always to walk or run the same route, because
that frees attention for thinking. It feels that way to me, and
there is some historical evidence for it.Thanks 
to Trevor Blackwell, Daniel Gackle, Pam Graham, Tom Howard,
Patrick Hsu, Steve Huffman, Jessica Livingston, Henry Lloyd-Baker,
Bob Metcalfe, Ben Miller, Robert Morris, Michael Nielsen, Courtenay
Pipkin, Joris Poort, Mieke Roos, Rajat Suri, Harj Taggar, Garry
Tan, and my younger son for suggestions and for reading drafts.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

December 2019Before I had kids, I was afraid of having kids. Up to that point I
felt about kids the way the young Augustine felt about living
virtuously. I'd have been sad to think I'd never have children.
But did I want them now? No.If I had kids, I'd become a parent, and parents, as I'd known since
I was a kid, were uncool. They were dull and responsible and had
no fun.  And while it's not surprising that kids would believe that,
to be honest I hadn't seen much as an adult to change my mind.
Whenever I'd noticed parents with kids, the kids seemed to be
terrors, and the parents pathetic harried creatures, even when they
prevailed.When people had babies, I congratulated them enthusiastically,
because that seemed to be what one did. But I didn't feel it at
all.  "Better you than me," I was thinking.Now when people have babies I congratulate them enthusiastically and
I mean it. Especially the first one. I feel like they just got the best gift in the world.What changed, of course, is that I had kids. Something I dreaded
turned out to be wonderful.Partly, and I won't deny it, this is because of serious chemical
changes that happened almost instantly when our first child was
born.  It was like someone flipped a switch. I suddenly felt
protective not just toward our child, but toward all children. As I was
driving my wife and new son home from the hospital, I approached a
crosswalk full of pedestrians, and I found myself thinking "I have
to be really careful of all these people. Every one of them is
someone's child!"So to some extent you can't trust me when I say having kids is
great.  To some extent I'm like a religious cultist telling you
that you'll be happy if you join the cult too  but only because
joining the cult will alter your mind in a way that will make you
happy to be a cult member.But not entirely. There were some things
about having kids that I clearly got wrong before I had them.For example, there was a huge amount of selection bias in my
observations of parents and children. Some parents may have noticed
that I wrote "Whenever I'd noticed parents with kids." Of course
the times I noticed kids were when things were going wrong. I only
noticed them when they made noise. And where was I when I noticed
them?  Ordinarily I never went to places with kids, so the only
times I encountered them were in shared bottlenecks like airplanes.
Which is not exactly a representative sample. Flying with a toddler
is something very few parents enjoy.What I didn't notice, because they tend to be much quieter, were
all the great moments parents had with kids. People don't talk about
these much  the magic is hard to put into words, and all other
parents know about them anyway  but one of the great things about
having kids is that there are so many times when you feel there is
nowhere else you'd rather be, and nothing else you'd rather be
doing.  You don't have to be doing anything special. You could just
be going somewhere together, or putting them to bed, or pushing
them on the swings at the park. But you wouldn't trade these moments
for anything. One doesn't tend to associate kids with peace, but
that's what you feel.  You don't need to look any
further than where you are right now.Before I had kids, I had moments of this kind of peace, but they
were rarer. With kids it can happen several times a day.My other source of data about kids was my own childhood, and that
was similarly misleading. I was pretty bad, and was always in trouble
for something or other. So it seemed to me that parenthood was
essentially law enforcement.  I didn't realize there were good times
too.I remember my mother telling me once when I was about 30 that she'd
really enjoyed having me and my sister. My god, I thought, this
woman is a saint. She not only endured all the pain we subjected
her to, but actually enjoyed it? Now I realize she was simply telling
the truth.She said that one reason she liked having us was that we'd been
interesting to talk to. That took me by surprise when I had kids.
You don't just love them. They become your friends too. They're
really interesting. And while I admit small children are disastrously
fond of repetition (anything worth doing once is worth doing fifty
times) it's often genuinely fun to play with them.  That surprised
me too. Playing with a 2 year old was fun when I was 2 and definitely
not fun when I was 6. Why would it become fun again later? But it
does.There are of course times that are pure drudgery. Or worse still,
terror. Having kids is one of those intense types of experience
that are hard to imagine unless you've had them. But it is not, as I
implicitly believed before having kids, simply your DNA heading for
the lifeboats.Some of my worries about having kids were right, though. They
definitely make you less productive. I know having kids makes some
people get their act together, but if your act was already together,
you're going to have less time to do it in. In particular, you're
going to have to work to a schedule. Kids have schedules.  I'm not
sure if it's because that's how kids are, or because it's the only
way to integrate their lives with adults', but once you have kids,
you tend to have to work on their schedule.You will have chunks of time to work. But you can't let work spill
promiscuously through your whole life, like I used to before I had
kids. You're going to have to work at the same time every day,
whether inspiration is flowing or not, and there are going to be
times when you have to stop, even if it is.I've been able to adapt to working this way. Work, like love, finds
a way. If there are only certain times it can happen, it happens
at those times. So while I don't get as much done as before I had
kids, I get enough done.I hate to say this, because being ambitious has always been a part
of my identity, but having kids may make one less ambitious. It
hurts to see that sentence written down. I squirm to avoid it. But
if there weren't something real there, why would I squirm?  The
fact is, once you have kids, you're probably going to care more
about them than you do about yourself. And attention is a zero-sum
game. Only one idea at a time can be the 
top idea in your mind.
Once you have kids, it will often be your kids, and that means it
will less often be some project you're working on.I have some hacks for sailing close to this wind. For example, when
I write essays, I think about what I'd want my kids to know. That
drives me to get things right. And when I was writing 
Bel, I told
my kids that once I finished it I'd take them to Africa. When you
say that sort of thing to a little kid, they treat it as a promise.
Which meant I had to finish or I'd be taking away their trip to
Africa.  Maybe if I'm really lucky such tricks could put me net
ahead. But the wind is there, no question.On the other hand, what kind of wimpy ambition do you have if it
won't survive having kids? Do you have so little to spare?And while having kids may be warping my present judgement, it hasn't
overwritten my memory. I remember perfectly well what life was like
before. Well enough to miss some things a lot, like the
ability to take off for some other country at a moment's notice.
That was so great. Why did I never do that?See what I did there? The fact is, most of the freedom I had before
kids, I never used. I paid for it in loneliness, but I never used
it.I had plenty of happy times before I had kids. But if I count up
happy moments, not just potential happiness but actual happy moments,
there are more after kids than before. Now I practically have it
on tap, almost any bedtime.People's experiences as parents
vary a lot, and I know I've been lucky. But I think the worries I
had before having kids must be pretty common, and judging by other
parents' faces when they see their kids, so must the happiness that
kids bring.Note[1] Adults are sophisticated enough to see 2 year olds for the
fascinatingly complex characters they are, whereas to most 6 year
olds, 2 year olds are just defective 6 year olds.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston, and Robert Morris
for reading drafts of this.Arabic TranslationSlovak Translation

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

July 2010When we sold our startup in 1998 I suddenly got a lot of money.  I
now had to think about something I hadn't had to think about before:
how not to lose it.   I knew it was possible to go from rich to
poor, just as it was possible to go from poor to rich.  But while
I'd spent a lot of the past several years studying the paths from
poor to rich, 
I knew practically nothing about the paths from rich
to poor.  Now, in order to avoid them, I had to learn where they
were.So I started to pay attention to how fortunes are lost.  If you'd
asked me as a kid how rich people became poor, I'd have said by
spending all their money.  That's how it happens in books and movies,
because that's the colorful way to do it.  But in fact the way most
fortunes are lost is not through excessive expenditure, but through
bad investments.It's hard to spend a fortune without noticing.  Someone with ordinary
tastes would find it hard to blow through more than a few tens of
thousands of dollars without thinking "wow, I'm spending a lot of
money."  Whereas if you start trading derivatives, you can lose a
million dollars (as much as you want, really) in the blink of an
eye.In most people's minds, spending money on luxuries sets off alarms
that making investments doesn't.  Luxuries seem self-indulgent.
And unless you got the money by inheriting it or winning a lottery,
you've already been thoroughly trained that self-indulgence leads
to trouble.  Investing bypasses those alarms.  You're not spending
the money; you're just moving it from one asset to another.  Which
is why people trying to sell you expensive things say "it's an
investment."The solution is to develop new alarms.  This can be a tricky business,
because while the alarms that prevent you from overspending are so
basic that they may even be in our DNA, the ones that prevent you
from making bad investments have to be learned, and are sometimes
fairly counterintuitive.A few days ago I realized something surprising: the situation with
time is much the same as with money.  The most dangerous way to
lose time is not to spend it having fun, but to spend it doing fake
work.  When you spend time having fun, you know you're being
self-indulgent.  Alarms start to go off fairly quickly.  If I woke
up one morning and sat down on the sofa and watched TV all day, I'd
feel like something was terribly wrong.  Just thinking about it
makes me wince.  I'd start to feel uncomfortable after sitting on
a sofa watching TV for 2 hours, let alone a whole day.And yet I've definitely had days when I might as well have sat in
front of a TV all day — days at the end of which, if I asked myself
what I got done that day, the answer would have been: basically,
nothing.  I feel bad after these days too, but nothing like as bad
as I'd feel if I spent the whole day on the sofa watching TV.  If
I spent a whole day watching TV I'd feel like I was descending into
perdition.  But the same alarms don't go off on the days when I get
nothing done, because I'm doing stuff that seems, superficially,
like real work.  Dealing with email, for example.  You do it sitting
at a desk.  It's not fun.  So it must be work.With time, as with money, avoiding pleasure is no longer enough to
protect you.  It probably was enough to protect hunter-gatherers,
and perhaps all pre-industrial societies.  So nature and nurture
combine to make us avoid self-indulgence. But the world has gotten
more complicated: the most dangerous traps now are new behaviors
that bypass our alarms about self-indulgence by mimicking more
virtuous types.  And the worst thing is, they're not even fun.Thanks to Sam Altman, Trevor Blackwell, Patrick Collison, Jessica
Livingston, and Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

June 2026(This is based on a talk I gave at the Oxford Union.)Since this is apparently the future prime ministers' club, I'm going
to tell you about something it would be good if more politicians
understood: I'm going to tell you how people become billionaires.
I hope this will be useful to you even if you don't plan to go into
politics. Those of you who don't become prime minister can become
billionaires instead.The reason I know about this topic is that 21 years ago Jessica and
I started something called Y Combinator. If you haven't heard of Y
Combinator, it's a cross between an investment firm and a school
for startup founders. Since we started it in 2005 we've funded about
6500 companies.Starting a successful startup is the most 
common way to become a
billionaire, so in effect I've spent the last 21 years training
people to become billionaires. So far about 30 of them have, but
there are many more in the pipeline.So you can imagine how astonished I was last month when an American
politician said that it was impossible to earn a billion dollars.
I felt like a skating coach hearing someone say that it's impossible
to do a triple axel. Of course it's possible. It's hard, but it's
possible.She wasn't saying, of course, that it's impossible to become a
billionaire. Obviously that's possible. Nor was she talking about
the distinction between income and capital gains. She wasn't making
a point about accounting. What she meant was that it's impossible
to get that rich without doing something bad — without cheating
in some way.A couple days later I was talking to the founder of a startup I'd
funded. I began by asking, as I usually do when I meet a founder,
what her growth rate was. 93% last month, she said. I pointed out
that this meant her net worth was also growing at 93% a month. She
was getting richer at a stupendously rapid rate. And yet she hadn't
been doing anything bad. The reason her startup was growing so fast
was simply that users loved what she'd built. So she could feel
from her own experience how wrong that politician was. She wasn't
exploiting anyone. Exactly the opposite in fact. The reason her
startup was growing so fast was that she and her cofounder had been
working their asses off to make their users happy, and as a result
the users had been telling their friends. And that gets you exponential
growth.Later that day I was talking about her case online, and someone
replied that having a few million and growing at 93% a month was
radically different from being a billionaire.I suspect many people would agree with this statement. But it turns
out not merely to be false, but false in a very illuminating way.So I would like you all to do me a favor please. I would like you
to take out your phones and calculate a number. I know this may
seem contrived, but I promise it will be useful for you. I'm going
to have you do the most common kind of calculation I do as an
investor, and the experience will bring home to you what startups
are all about.If we interpret his statement in the most conservative way and
assume that a few means 2, her company has to grow 500x for her to
become a billionaire. So we are going to calculate how many months
of 93% growth it takes for something to grow 500x.To do this we want to calculate the log base 1.93 of 500. The easiest
way to do that is to go to Google search, which lets you do
calculations right in the search box. So go to Google search and
type log(500, 1.93). If you typed that right, the answer you get
is about 9.45.That is how many months of 93% growth it takes to become a billionaire,
starting from 2 million. A couple million and 93% growth are not,
in fact, radically different from a billion. They're nine and a
half months apart.Now you see why, when I meet a founder, the first thing I ask about
is their growth rate.But I don't want anyone to accuse me of using unrealistic numbers,
so let's take a more conservative growth rate. Let's see what happens
at 15% a month. That's not rare at all. I constantly encounter
startups growing at 15% a month.If your revenues grow at 15% a month, how much more will you be
making 5 years from now? To calculate that, we need to find 1.15
to the 60th power (since 5 years is 60 months). So go to Google
again and this time type 1.15^60. The answer should be about 4384.
Meaning in 5 years your startup will be making 4384 times as much.
If you're currently making ten thousand a month, in five years
you'll be making about 44 million a month, or 526 million a year.
And at that point, if you own as much of the company as founders
typically do, you will be a billionaire.In the real world, growth rates tend to slow down a bit. A very
successful startup will probably be growing faster than 15% a month
in year 1 and slower than 15% a month in year 5. But you end up in
about the same place. If you start a startup in your early twenties,
it's definitely possible to be a billionaire by the time you're
thirty. Hard, but possible.I wanted you to feel this by doing the calculation yourselves,
because now you understand one of the reasons people start startups.
Exponential growth is like magic. It generates outcomes that seem
impossible. And that's why some politicians distrust it. They don't
understand the math of exponential growth, so when they see people
becoming what seems to them impossibly rich, they assume they must
have cheated.But now you at least understand, from having done the math yourselves,
that you don't have to cheat to become a billionaire. You've seen
for yourselves that there are only two numbers in the calculation,
the growth rate and how long it continues. If it's impossible to
make a billion dollars without cheating, which of those two numbers
is impossible? It's certainly not impossible to grow at 15% a month
without cheating. Startups do that all the time. And how long you
can continue to grow at that rate depends on the size of the market.
Obviously for you to grow 4000x, there has to be at least 4000x
more demand. But that's all you need. And how could you possibly
cheat to increase the market size?If you're only planning to become prime minister, you can stop
paying attention now. We've proved that it is in fact possible to
earn a billion dollars, because it only depends on two numbers, one
of which startups routinely hit without cheating, and another that
cheating couldn't possibly affect.But if you actually want to become a billionaire, we should go into
more detail. Especially about that first number, the growth rate.
To grow at a consistent rate every month, you have to make something
so good that people tell their friends about it. And in fact that's
the other reason I always begin by asking founders their growth
rate. It shows whether they've built the right thing.So how, exactly, do you make something people like so much that
they tell their friends about it? The problem with market economies,
and also the great thing about market economies, is that it's hard
to make something customers want that they don't already have. As
soon as a new, satisfiable need is discovered, people rush to satisfy
it. So you're going to have to discover a need that no one else
knows about yet.How do you do that? By feeling the need yourself.You're young, and usually young founders should make something that
they themselves want. You don't have enough experience yet to know
what other people need. But at the same time your own needs are
uniquely valuable, because your needs predict future demand. You're
the age when people start using new things. Whatever you and your
friends start using now, everyone is going to be using in ten years.
Since your intuitions about other people's needs are usually a crap
signal, and your own needs are an especially valuable one, you
should usually listen to the second signal; you should make something
you and your friends want.Making something you and your friends want doesn't mean you have
to build a consumer product. Maybe you and your friends are molecular
biologists, and there's something cool that could be done now to
DNA that everyone else has overlooked. Maybe you and your friends
are into drones. The idea doesn't have to have a wide appeal. It
literally just has to appeal to you and your friends.Don't worry about the second number, the market size. Since you
predict future demand, the market will grow. And it's always possible
to expand into adjacent markets. All you need is a beachhead in the
territory of unsatisfied need that you can expand from.How do you get an idea like that? The answer is one of the most
counterintuitive things about startups — which is saying something,
because there are a lot of counterintuitive things about startups.
But the way to get the very best startup ideas is not to look for
startup ideas. If you're consciously looking for startup ideas, it
will make you too conservative. You'll lop off the outliers. Because
the very best startup ideas tend to sound so lame, at first, that
you'd reject them if you were consciously looking for startup ideas.
That's what has prevented them from being discovered.Imagine what a bad idea Apple or Facebook or Airbnb seemed at first.
How many people are going to want their own computers? How is a
company going to make money from undergrads stalking one another
online? Who's going to pay to sleep on an airbed on someone's floor?
We know how these ideas turned out, so it's easy to rewrite history,
but I remember very well how bad Facebook and Airbnb sounded at
first. We funded Airbnb, and we thought the idea was bad. The
reason we funded them was just that we liked the 
founders.So how do you find startup ideas without looking for them? By working
on projects with your friends. That's where the very best startups
come from. Initially they're not even meant to be companies. They're
just something people built because they thought it would be cool.
That's how Apple and Google and Facebook all started. None of them
were meant to be companies at first.The reason this works is what I told you earlier: you predict future
demand. So if you just build random stuff you think would be cool,
the things you build will actually be far from random.This is one of those cases where your unconscious mind knows more
than your conscious mind does. Anything that genuinely seems to you
like it would be a cool thing to build has a high probability of
leading to a good startup idea, no matter how preposterous it sounds.
Whatever you build couldn't possibly sound more preposterous than
a startup we funded in 2006 called Justin.TV. It consisted of one
guy, Justin Kan, walking around with a camera on the side of his
head, live streaming everything that happened to him. But this
company ended up doing quite well. In fact you've probably heard
of it, but under its new name, Twitch.The key to starting a successful startup is to understand some group
of users so well that you can make exactly what they want. If you're
young you can, and should, use the hack of making something for
yourself. You understand yourself. But this is just an instance of
the more general rule. Only by understanding users very deeply can
you make something they love so much that they tell their friends
about it, and only that can get you the exponential growth you need
to make a startup really successful.There are other ways to get rich than by starting startups. Some
of those do require you to exploit people. But startups are the
most common way to become really rich, and if you want to start a
successful startup, the key is not exploitation but empathy. What
do users really want? What could you do for them that would make
their lives dramatically better? That kind of empathy is what we
look for in founders, and what we cultivate in the ones we accept.How people become rich in your society is one of the most important
things to understand about it. You can't let your beliefs about
this be determined by ideology, or movies, or historical examples that are
centuries old. You must look at the world around you and see how
it's actually done. If you want to do it yourself, obviously you'll
be forced to understand how it's done. So I don't worry too much
about you. The ones I worry about are the future prime ministers.
You need to remember this talk. So for you I'm going to summarize
the key ideas.There are two numbers that determine how big a startup gets, and
thus how rich its founders become: the growth rate and how long it
continues. You get the first by making something users like so much
they tell their friends. You get the second by being in a big market.
If you grow exponentially into a big market, your startup will
become valuable, and you, as a shareholder, will become rich. You
not only don't have to cheat to make this happen, it will happen
automatically if you just keep making customers happy.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jared Friedman, 
Jessica Livingston, and
Garry Tan for reading drafts of this, and to Arwa Elrayess and the
Oxford Union for hosting me.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

May 2026How do you convert between wealth and income tax? If a government
imposes a wealth tax of 1%, what's the equivalent in income tax?It's clear from the way most politicians talk about the subject
that they not only don't know the answer, but don't even realize
there's such a question.In fact the conversion rate between them is about 20. A wealth tax
of 1% is equivalent to an income tax of 20%.To convert between wealth and income tax rates, you have to divide
by the rate of return on capital. The conversion rate of 20 comes
from assuming that the risk-free rate of return is 5%.  Historically
that's an optimistic assumption. 4% might be more realistic. But
5% will do. 
[1]If we run through an example it will be clear how this works. Suppose
you have $100, you're getting a 5% rate of return on this capital,
and there's a 20% income tax. The 5% rate of return means at the
end of one year your $100 has made you another $5. But you have to
pay 20% of that, or $1, in income tax, so your after-tax income is
$4. At the end of the year, after paying taxes, you have $100 + $4
= $104.Now suppose instead of a 20% income tax, there's a 1% wealth tax.
At the end of the year your $100 has made you another $5, as before.
But that year you had to pay 1% of your $100, or $1, in wealth tax.
So at the end of the year you have $99 + $5 = $104.Each 1% of wealth tax is equivalent to 20% of income tax.It's clear that politicians don't get this from the way they talk
about a "mere 1%" wealth tax. None of them would speak of adding a
"mere 20%" to the income tax rate, even though that's mathematically
the same thing. 
[2]Politicians understand that an additional 20% income tax would be
a lot. And indeed a US state that added 20% to its top income
tax rate would have extraordinarily high taxes.Currently the country with the highest marginal income tax rate is
Denmark, at 60.5%. The top US federal tax rate is 37%, and the
median state income tax rate is Oklahoma's, which is 4.75%. So in
the median case, a state adding an additional 20% in income tax
would have a total marginal tax rate of 37% + 4.75% + 20%, or 61.75%.
[3]In the median case, US state politicians talking about adding a
"mere 1%" wealth tax are talking about causing the residents of their
state to have the highest taxes in the world. That's not the sort
of decision you make lightly.That's why I think few politicians currently understand
how to convert between wealth and income taxes. You can tell from
the way they talk about the subject that they don't understand the
momentousness of what they're proposing. But I'm optimistic that
we can teach them. The answer's not hard to understand, once you
realize the question exists.Notes[1]
It's possible to get a higher rate of return if you're willing
to risk losing your capital. But to convert
between tax rates you should use the risk-free rate of return,
because considered as an anti-investment, a wealth tax is absolutely
risk-free: you will absolutely owe the government that money. And
while you do have to put "risk-free" in scare quotes when talking
about returns, the kind of risks you're talking about now are the
almost apocalyptic kind that would make tax rates a moot point.[2]
The same conversion rate applies to capital gains. The source
of the multiple is whether the money is taxed every year or just
once. Indeed it's the same math you'd use to calculate the value
of any income-generating asset.[3]
You can deduct some state tax from your federal income taxes,
but there's a cap on how much you can deduct, which means in the
marginal case we simply add the two rates.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston,
Carolynn Levy, Jon Levy, Alex Tabarrok, and Harj Taggar for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

March 2026In the early 1970s, disaster struck the Swiss watch industry. Now
people call it the quartz crisis, but in fact it was a compound of
three separate disasters that all happened at about the same time.The first was competition from Japan. The Swiss had been watching
the Japanese in the rear view mirror all through the 1960s, and
they'd been improving at an alarming rate. But even so the Swiss
were surprised in 1968 when the Japanese swept all the top spots
for mechanical watches at the Geneva Observatory trials.The Swiss knew what was coming. For years the Japanese had been
able to make cheaper watches. Now they could make better ones too.To make matters worse, Swiss watches were about to become much more
expensive. The Bretton Woods agreement, which since 1945 had fixed
the exchange rates of most of the world's currencies, had set the
Swiss Franc at an artificially low rate of .228 USD. When Bretton
Woods collapsed in 1973, the Franc shot upward. By 1978 it reached
.625 USD, meaning Swiss watches were now 2.7 times as expensive for
Americans to buy. 
[1]The combined effect of foreign competition and the loss of their
protective exchange rate would have decimated the Swiss watch
industry even if it hadn't been for quartz movements. But quartz
movements were the final blow. Now the whole game they'd been trying
to win at became irrelevant. Something that had been expensive —
knowing the exact time — was now a commodity.Between the early 1970s and the early 1980s, unit sales of Swiss
watches fell by almost two thirds. Most Swiss watchmakers became
insolvent or close to it and were sold. But not all of them. A
handful survived as independent companies. And the way they did it
was by transforming themselves from precision instrument makers
into luxury brands.In the process the nature of the mechanical watch was also transformed.
The most expensive watches have always cost a lot, but why they
cost a lot and what buyers got in return have changed completely.
In 1960 expensive watches cost a lot because they cost a lot to
manufacture, and what the buyer got in return was the most accurate
timekeeping device, for its size, that could be made. Now they cost
a lot because brands spend a lot on advertising and use tricks to
limit supply, and what the buyer gets in return is an expensive
status symbol.That turns out to be a profitable business though. The Swiss watch
industry probably makes more now from selling brand than they would
have if they were still selling engineering. And indeed, when you
look at the graph of Swiss watch sales by revenue, it tells a
different story than the graph of unit sales. Instead of falling
off a cliff, the revenue numbers merely flatten out for a while,
and then take off like a rocket in the late 1980s as the surviving
watchmakers come to terms with their new destiny.It took the watchmakers about 20 years to figure out the new rules
of the game. And it's interesting to watch them do it, because the
completeness of their transformation makes it the perfect case study
in one of the most powerful forces of our era: brand.Brand is what's left when the substantive differences between
products disappear. But making the substantive differences between
products disappear is what technology naturally tends to do. So
what happened to the Swiss watch industry is not merely an interesting
outlier. It's very much a story of our times.Jaeger-LeCoultre's web site says that one of their current collections
"takes its inspiration from the classic designs of the golden age
of watchmaking." In saying this they're implicitly saying something
that present-day watchmakers all know but rarely come so close to
saying outright: whatever age we're in now, it's not the golden
age.The golden age was from 1945 to 1970 — from the point where the
watch industry emerged from the chaos of war with the Swiss on top
till the triple cataclysm that struck it starting in the late 60s.
There were two things watchmakers sought above all in the golden
age: thinness and accuracy. And indeed this was arguably the essential
tradeoff in watchmaking. A watch is something you carry with you
to tell you the time. So there are two fundamental ways to improve
it: to make it easier to carry with you and to make it better at
telling the time.Obviously accuracy is valuable, but in the golden age thinness was
if anything more valuable. Even in the days of pocket watches the
best watchmakers tried to make their watches as thin as they could.
Cheap, thick pocket watches were derided as "turnips." But thinness
took on a new urgency when men's watches moved onto their wrists
during World War I. And since thinness was more difficult to achieve
than accuracy, it was this quality that tended to distinguish the
more expensive watches of the golden age.There is one other thing watchmakers have pursued in some eras:
telling more than the time in the usual way. Telling you the phase
of the moon, for example, or telling the time with sound. In the
industry the term for these things is "complications." They were
popular in the nineteenth century and they're popular again now,
but except for one pragmatic complication (showing the date), they
were a sideshow in the golden age. In the golden age, as always in
golden ages, the top watchmakers focused on the essential tradeoff.
And, as always in golden ages, they did it beautifully. The best
watches of the golden age have a 
quiet perfection that has never
been equalled since. And for reasons I'm about to explain, probably
never will be.The three most prestigious brands of the golden age were the so-called
"holy trinity" of Patek Philippe, Vacheron Constantin, and Audemars
Piguet. Their prestige was mostly deserved; they had earned it by
the exceptional quality of their work. By the 1960s they stood on
two legs, prestige and performance. And what they learned in the
next two decades was that they had to put all their weight on the
first leg, because they could no longer win at either of the two
things watchmakers had historically striven to achieve. Quartz
movements were not only more accurate than any mechanical movement,
but thinner too.The holy trinity at least had another leg to stand on. Most of the
other well-known Swiss watchmakers sold only performance. None of
those companies survived intact.Omega showed what not to do. Omega were the nerds of Swiss watchmakers.
They made wonderfully accurate watches, but they would have been
ambivalent, at best, about the idea of being a luxury brand. When
the Japanese got as good as the Swiss at making accurate movements,
Omega responded in the Omega way: make even more accurate movements.
They introduced a new movement in 1968 that ran at a 45% higher
frequency. In theory this should have made it more accurate, but
the new movement was so fragile that it destroyed their reputation
for reliability. They even tried to make a better quartz movement,
but there was nothing down that road but a race to the bottom. By
1981 they were insolvent and were taken over by their creditors.Patek Philippe took the opposite approach. While Omega was redesigning
their movements, Patek was redesigning their cases. Or more precisely,
designing their cases, because until then they hadn't.This is probably the point to mention what a strange beast the Swiss
watch industry was in those days. It was a kind of capitalism that's
hard to imagine today, and even then could only have been made to
work in a country like Switzerland — a network of small, specialized
companies locked into place by regulation. The companies that we
for convenience have been calling watchmakers were merely the
consumer-facing edge of this network. The holy trinity didn't design
their own cases, or even their own movements most of the time.In 1968 (that year again) Patek Philippe launched a new watch that
shifted the center of gravity of case design. This time they'd taken
their own designs to the casemakers and said "this is what you're
going to make for us." The result was a striking new model called
the Golden Ellipse. Somewhat confusingly, because it wasn't elliptical.
The new case was more of what UI designers would call a round rect:
a rectangle with rounded corners. And this new family of watches
was quite successful. But it was more than that: it was the pattern
for the future. 
[2]How could merely designing a distinctive case be so important?
Because it turned the entire watch into an expression of brand.The trouble with the best watches of the golden age, from the point
of view of someone who wanted to impress people with the brand of
watch he was wearing, was that no one could tell what brand of watch
you were wearing. Until you got within a few inches of them, the
watches of all the top makers looked the same. That's the thing
about minimalism: there tends to be just one answer. Plus the watches
of the golden age were small by present standards. Watchmakers had
spent centuries working to make them smaller, and by 1960 they'd
gotten very good at it. So the only thing distinguishing one top
brand from another was the name printed on the dial, and dials were
so small that these names were tiny. The manufacturers' names on
the holy trinity's golden age watches are between half and three
quarters of a millimeter high. By taking over the case, Patek
expanded the size of the brand from 8 square millimeters to 800.Why did they suddenly decide to make their brand shout, after a
century of whispering? Because they knew they weren't going to beat
the Japanese on performance. From now on they'd have to depend more
on brand.There's a cost to doing this, which we can see even in this early
example of case-as-brand. Golden Ellipses are not bad looking. They
must have looked even cooler in the 1970s, when designers were
turning everything into round rects. But the Golden Ellipse was not
an evolutionary step forward in case design. Watches didn't all
become round rects. Watchmakers had already discovered the optimal
shape for the case of something that describes a circle as it
rotates.They had also discovered the optimal shape for the crown, the knob
on the side of a watch that you turn to wind it. But to emphasize
the distinctive profile of the Ellipse, Patek made the crown too
small, with the result that they're distractingly hard to wind.
[3]So even in this early example we see an important point about the
relationship between brand and design. Branding isn't merely
orthogonal to good design, but opposed to it. Branding by definition
has to be distinctive. But good design, like math or science, seeks
the right answer, and right answers tend to converge.Branding is centrifugal; design is centripetal.There is some wiggle room here of course. Design doesn't have as
sharply defined right answers as math, especially design meant for
a human audience. So it's not necessarily bad design to do something
distinctive if you have honest motives. But you can't evade the
fundamental conflict between branding and design, any more than you
can evade gravity.Indeed, the conflict between branding and design is so fundamental
that it extends far beyond things we call design. We see it even
in religion. If you want the adherents of a religion to have customs
that set them apart from everyone else, you can't make them do
things that are convenient or reasonable, or other people would do
them too. If you want to set your adherents apart, you have to make
them do things that are inconvenient and unreasonable.It's the same if you want to set your designs apart. If you choose
good options, other people will choose them too.There are only two ways to combine branding and good design. You
can do it when the space of possibilities is enormously large, as
it is in painting, for example. Leonardo could paint as well as he
possibly could and yet also paint in a style that was distinctively
his. If there had been a million painters as good as Bellini and
Leonardo this would have been harder to do, but since there were
more like ten they didn't bump up against one another much.
[4]The other situation when branding and good design can be combined
is when the space of possibilities is comparatively unexplored. If
you're the first to arrive in some new territory, you can both find
the right answer and claim it as uniquely yours. At least at first;
if you've really found the right answer, everyone else's designs
will inevitably converge on yours, and your brand advantage will
erode over time.Since the space of watch design is neither unexplored nor enormously
large, branding can only be achieved at the expense of good design.
And in fact if you wanted one sentence to describe the current age
of watchmaking, that one would do pretty well.Patek Philippe didn't know for sure that making visibly branded
watches would work. It was not even their only strategy, at the
time. They were finding their way. But it was the strategy that did
work, at least as measured by revenues.For it to work the customers had to meet them halfway. Patek knew
that not all their customers were buying their watches for the
performance they delivered — for their accuracy and thinness. They
knew that at least some customers were buying them because they
were expensive. But it was unclear how many, or how far they could
be pushed.To encourage them, Patek did something that none of the holy trinity
had done much of before: brand advertising. And what they talked
about was how expensive their watches were. A 1968 Patek ad explained
"why you are well advised to invest perhaps half a month's income"
in an Ellipse. "Like every Patek Philippe," the ad continued, "this
thin model is entirely finished by hand. Since a Patek Philippe is
the costliest watch to make, production is severely limited: only
43 watches are signed out each day for delivery to prominent jewelers
throughout the world."
[5]You can tell this is an early ad because they still mention thinness.
But there is no mention of accuracy. Presumably Patek felt that
battle was already lost.The next move was made by Audemars Piguet, who in 1970 commissioned
the renowned designer Gérald Genta to design their own iconic watch,
this one, daringly, in steel. The result, launched in 1972, was the
Royal Oak. 
And Audemars Piguet's ads (for they too now started doing
brand advertising) emphasized its high cost even more dramatically.
"Introducing steel at the price of gold," one began. "You're looking
at the costliest stainless steel watch in the world — the Audemars
Piguet 'Royal Oak'. What makes it even more precious than gold is
the time that went into building it, by a vanishing breed of master
watchmakers." At the bottom of the ad they turn the traditional
formula on its head and describe their watches as being "priced
from $35,000 and down."The Royal Oak was also a step forward in surface area devoted to
brand. The Golden Ellipse had turned the watch face into an expression
of brand, but it used ordinary straps and bracelets. In the Royal
Oak, the watch face was integrated with a metal bracelet that
continued its design all the way around the wrist. When it said
"You're looking at the costliest stainless steel watch in the world,"
it said it with every square millimeter of surface area.Would customers buy this new approach? The initial results were
moderately encouraging. The holy trinity's sales didn't take off,
but they didn't go down to zero either. There were at least some
people out there responding to the new message. Perhaps if they
kept at it the number would grow.So they did. Encouraged by the success of the Royal Oak, Patek
Philippe commissioned Gérald Genta in 1974 to design a similar watch
for them. The design of the Royal Oak had been inspired by a ship's
porthole, so the design of this new watch would be inspired by...
a ship's porthole. It was called the 
Nautilus, and it launched at
the Basel Watch Fair in 1976.In the Nautilus we really see the incompatibility of branding and
design. It was huge. The most expensive men's watches at the peak
of the golden age were typically 32 or 33 millimeters in diameter.
The Nautilus was 42 millimeters. And as well as being huge it had
gratuitous knobs on either side of the face, like a pair of ears.
But you could recognize one from across the room.Of all the watches Patek makes now, the Nautilus is the most sought
after. It's perfectly aligned with what present-day buyers want — 
basically, the loudest possible expression of brand. But in 1976
it was ahead of its time. In 1976 it was still a little too much.The watch that finally turned Patek's fortunes around was another
iconic design, the hobnail calatrava. The hobnail calatravas were
so called because they were decorated with tiny pyramid-shaped
spikes. That was enough to make them look distinctive. But except
for the hobnails they were basically golden age dress watches.The hobnail calatrava was apparently the brainchild of René Bittel,
the head of Patek Philippe's ad agency. It was not a new design.
Many watchmakers had decorated their cases with hobnails over the
years, and there had been a Patek model with them since 1968. But
in 1984 Bittel told Patek president Philippe Stern, in effect: make
this your standard design, and I'll create an ad campaign to identify
it in people's heads with your brand. 
[6]It worked spectacularly well. The resulting watch, the 
3919, is
known as the "banker's watch" because it became so popular among
investment bankers in New York in the 80s and 90s. Up to this point
Patek had been hedging their bets, making quartz watches as well,
and arguing defensively in their ads that quartz watches in fancy
cases were almost as laborious to make as mechanical ones. But the
ibankers bought the full mechanical story. They didn't even need
self-winding mechanical watches; the 3919 was hand-wound. So be it.
Patek stopped talking about quartz movements. And their sales, which
had been flat since the early 70s, were by 1987 on a clear upward
trajectory.It's hard to say for sure whether the critical ingredient was
Bittel's skill at advertising or a receptive audience, but as someone
who knew these investment bankers, I'd lean toward the audience.
These were the people for whom the term "yuppy" was coined. Living
expensively was one of the things they were best known for. If
anyone was going to adopt a new way to display wealth, it would be
them. Whereas if Bittel had sent the same message ten years earlier,
there might have been no one to hear it.Whatever the cause, something happened in the second half of the
1980s, because that's when all the numbers finally start going up
again. Up till about 1985 it was still not clear what would happen
with mechanical watches. By 1990 it was. By 1990 the custom of using
expensive, highly-branded, conspicuously mechanical watches as
status symbols was firmly established.
[7]Obsolete technologies don't usually get adopted as ways to display
wealth. Why did it happen with mechanical watches? Because the
wristwatch turns out to be the perfect vehicle for it. Where better
than right on your wrist, where everyone can see it? And more to
the point, what better to do it with? You could wear a diamond ring
or a gold chain, but those would have seemed socially dubious to
investment bankers. They might have been barbarians, but they weren't
mafia. Whereas nothing could be more legit than a gold watch. The
chairman of the company was still wearing one his wife gave him 20
years ago, before quartz watches were even a thing. If the increasing
pressure to display wealth was going to emerge anywhere, this was
the place.
[8]For men, at least. Women never really went for the idea of wearing
mechanical watches. Most rich women are happy wearing a Cartier
tank with a quartz movement. Why the difference? Partly for the
same reason that most buyers of steam engines are men. But the main
reason is that expensive mechanical watches now serve as de facto
jewelry for men, and women don't need de facto jewelry because they
can wear actual jewelry.It was critical, though, that mechanical watches were accurate
enough. A new 3919 would have been off by no more than 5 seconds
a day. That was nowhere near as good as quartz. Even the cheapest
mass market quartz watches were accurate to half a second a day,
and the best ones were accurate to 3 seconds a year. But in practice
you didn't need that kind of accuracy. If mechanical watches had
only been accurate to a minute a day they couldn't have made the
leap from keeping time to displaying wealth. It would have seemed
too manifestly unluxurious to have a watch that always had the wrong
time. But 5 seconds a day was close enough.
[9]This is an important point about the relationship between brand and
quality. Quality doesn't stop mattering when a product switches to
something people buy for its brand. But the way it matters changes
shape. It becomes a threshold. It no longer has to be so great that
it sells the product; brand sells the product; but it does have to
be good enough to maintain the brand's reputation. The brand must
not break character.It was a lucky thing for the watchmakers that yuppies arose just
in time to save them. Or maybe not so lucky. Because the evolution
of the market that yuppies represented has continued with a vengeance,
and watchmakers have perforce been dragged along with it. If they
don't make gigantic blingy watches for buyers in Hong Kong and
Dubai, someone else will. So that is what they now find themselves
doing. And what began with a few comparatively subtle examples of
the conflict between branding and design is now an all out 
war on
design.The present era of mechanical watchmaking doesn't yet have a name.
But if we need one, it's obvious what it should be: the brand age.
The golden age ran from 1945 to 1970, followed by the quartz crisis
from 1970 to 1985. Since 1985 we've been in the brand age.This won't be the only brand age. Indeed, it's not even the first;
fine art has been in its own brand age since the establishment of
the Barr canon in the 1930s. And since we'll probably see more of
this kind of thing, it would be worth taking some time to look at
what a brand age is like.How are things different now from the way they were in the golden
age? The best way to answer that might be to imagine what someone
from the golden age would notice if we brought him here in a time
machine.The first thing he'd notice, if he walked through a fancy shopping
district, is that all the prominent watchmakers of the golden age
seem to be doing better than ever. They're not only all still around,
but most now have their own boutiques instead of depending on
jewelers to sell their products as they used to back in the day.In fact this is an illusion. Only three watchmakers survived the
dark days of the 70s and 80s as independent companies: Patek Philippe,
Audemars Piguet, and Rolex. All the rest are owned by six holding
companies, which reinflated them as it became clear that mechanical
watches would have a second life as luxury accessories for men.
Instead of separate companies they're now more like the brands
that got rolled up into the big three American automakers: they're
ways for their parent companies to target different segments of the
market. So Longines, for example, no longer competes with Omega,
because the company that owns them both has assigned it a lower
tier of the market. 
[10]There's a reason the Vacheron Constantin boutique looks so much
like the IWC and Jaeger-LeCoultre boutiques, and for that matter
the Montblanc and Cartier boutiques. They're all owned by the same
company. It's similar with clothing brands, incidentally. When you
walk through a town's fanciest shopping district, what seem to be
the shops of lots of different brands are actually owned by a handful
of conglomerates. That's one reason these districts seem so sterile;
like suburbs built by a single developer, they have an unnatural
lack of variety.When our time traveler peered into the windows of these shops, the
first thing he'd notice would be how large all the watches were. This
would surprise him, because in the golden age, as indeed in all the
preceding centuries, big meant cheap. An expensive golden age men's
watch might have been 33 millimeters in diameter and 8 millimeters
thick. An expensive watch today will be more like 42 millimeters
in diameter and 10 millimeters thick — more than double the size.
It would astonish our visitor to look through the windows of what
were clearly very fancy shops and see what seemed to be cheap
watches. 
[11]We know how this happened. When watches switched from telling time
to telling brand, they grew in size to be better at it. And not
just in size, but in shape too. That's another thing our time
traveler would notice: the surprising variety of strange case shapes
and awkward protrusions that have been produced as the centrifugal
tendency of branding played out. What, he'd wonder, is going on
with the huge guards on the crowns of those Panerais? What do people
do with these watches that makes the crown need such protection?
And why would a crown guard have a message engraved on it saying
that it's a registered trademark? It's obvious to us what's going
on here, but imagine how confusing it would be to someone from the
golden age, when form followed function.
[12]As he puzzled over this strange assortment of bulky watches, he'd
notice a further pattern. He'd realize that a surprisingly large
number of them looked like a specific brand of bulky watch he was
already familiar with.I haven't talked about Rolex so far, because Rolex didn't have to
do much to adapt to the new era. They already had one foot in the
brand age during the golden age. Early in their history they put a
lot of effort into making their watches better, but they "stopped
taking part in competitions in Geneva and Neuchâtel at the end of
the 1950s," and from about 1960 "largely abandoned research into
mechanical watchmaking."
[13]
The reason was not that they'd become
lazy, but that they'd discovered they could make sales grow faster
by marketing their watches as status symbols. So that became their
focus during the 1960s, and by the time the quartz crisis hit ten
years later, their customers were self-selected to be people who
didn't care that much what was inside a watch, so long as it was
recognizably a Rolex.And they were far ahead of other watchmakers in that department.
They already had in the 1940s what we saw Patek Philippe and Audemars
Piguet struggling to create in the 1970s and 80s: a case that
immediately proclaimed the brand of the maker. The Rolex look seems
to have evolved organically, but once it did, they realized how
important it was. In fact they pitched it as one of the features
of their watches. A 1960s Rolex ad says "You can recognize its
classic shape, carved out of a block of solid gold, from the other
end of the conference table."Indeed Rolex was ahead of its time in both dimensions: their cases
were not merely recognizable, but big too, at least by golden age
standards. That was not the result of clever marketing, though. It
was a byproduct of the founder Hans Wilsdorf's obsession with
building waterproof watches.As its name suggests, that was the raison d'etre of the Rolex Oyster.
Watches like the Oyster were designed to be tough, like Jeeps. In
the golden age there were two poles of watch design. At one end
were tool watches, which were thick, tough, and usually made of
steel. At the other end were dress watches, which were thin, elegant,
and usually made of gold. But Rolex blurred the line between them.
When they made thick, tough watches, they made them out of gold as
well as steel. The result was a sort of luxury Jeep. And if that
phrase didn't ring a bell in your head, stop and think about it,
because that is exactly what everyone is driving now. That's what
SUVs are, luxury Jeeps. What happened to watches is the same thing
that happened to cars. And indeed if our time traveler turned and
saw a Porsche Cayenne pass by and realized what it was — a huge,
pseudo-offroad vehicle meant to recall the Porsche 911 — he might
have been even more shocked than he was by the watches he'd been
looking at. 
[14]If the time traveller walked into a Patek Philippe boutique and
actually tried to buy a Nautilus, he'd get the biggest shock of
all. They wouldn't sell him one. Because at Patek he'd encounter
the most extreme brand age phenomenon: artificial scarcity. You
can't just buy a Nautilus. You have to spend years proving your
loyalty first by buying your way through multiple tiers of other
models, and then spend years on a waiting list. 
[15]Obviously this strategy sells more watches. But it also supports
retail prices by keeping watches off the secondary market. A company
using artificial scarcity to drive sales can't allow too many of
the scarce models to leak into the secondary market, or they stop
being scarce. The ideal is the watch equivalent of carbon sequestration:
for the people who buy their watches to keep them till they die.To push the market toward this ideal, Patek squeezes from both sides
of the sale. They weed out flippers by making the path to the scarce
models so costly in both time and money — so inconvenient and
unreasonable — that only a genuine fan would endure it. The lower
tier watches sell for below retail on the secondary market, because
Patek doesn't restrict their supply, so a would-be flipper should
have to spend years making money-losing purchases before he could
even get something he could flip at a profit. Apparently some people
still manage to beat this system though, so Patek's countermeasures
don't end there. They keep a vigilant eye on secondary sales to see
who's selling their watches. Auction listings usually include serial
numbers, so those are easy to trace, but if necessary they'll rebuy
their own watches on the secondary market to get the serial number
and trace the leak. They buy hundreds a year. And when they catch
someone selling watches they don't want them to, they don't just
cut off that customer. If a retailer's customers are responsible
for too many such leaks, they'll cut off the whole retailer. Which
naturally makes retailers eager to help them police buyers.There will of course always be some leaks into the secondary market.
Even the most loyal customers die at a certain rate. And in fact
it's critical for Patek that the secondary market continue to exist,
because it's one of the most valuable sources of information they
have about the most important question they face: how fast to
increase the supply of the top tier watches. Their scarcity helps
drive the purchases of all the others, so those that do make it
into the secondary market should always sell for above retail. And
I'm sure Patek leaves a large margin for error when increasing
supply, because if secondary market prices for these watches get
close to retail prices, you're getting close to a price collapse
— which, since people now buy these watches as investments, would
have the same disastrous cascading effect as the bursting of an
asset bubble. It wouldn't just be like the bursting of an asset
bubble. It would be the bursting of an asset bubble. That's the
business an elite watchmaker is in now: carefully managing a sustained
asset bubble. 
[16]This is an instance of what I call the comb-over effect: when a
series of individually small changes takes you from something that's
a little bit off to something that's freakishly wrong. I'm sure
Patek didn't cook up this whole scheme in one shot; I'm sure it
evolved gradually. But look at what a strange place we've ended up
in. Back in the golden age the way you bought a Patek Philippe was
to go to a jeweler and give them money. Now Patek is policing buyers
to maintain an asset bubble.The most striking thing to me about the brand age is the sheer
strangeness of it. The zombie watch brands that appear to be
independent and even have their own retail stores, and yet are all
owned by a few holding companies. The giant, awkwardly shaped watches
that reverse 500 years of progress in making them smaller. The
business model that requires a company to rebuy their own watches
on the secondary market to catch rogue customers. The very concept
of rogue customers. It's all so strange. And the reason it's strange
is that there's no function for form to follow.Up to the end of the golden age, mechanical watches were necessary.
You needed them to know the time. And that constraint gave both the
watches and the watchmaking industry a meaningful shape. There were
certainly some strange-looking watches made during the golden age.
They weren't all beautifully minimal. But when golden age watchmakers
made a strange-looking watch, they knew they were doing it. In fact
they give the impression of having done it as a deliberate exercise,
to avoid getting into a rut.That's not why brand age watches look strange. Brand age watches
look strange because they have no practical function. Their function
is to express brand, and while that is certainly a constraint, it's
not the clean kind of constraint that generates good things. The
constraints imposed by brand ultimately depend on some of the worst
features of human psychology. So when you have a world defined only
by brand, it's going to be a weird, bad world.Well that was dark. Is there some edifying lesson we can salvage
from the wreckage?One obvious lesson is to stay away from brand. Indeed it's probably
a good idea not just to avoid buying brand, but to avoid selling
it too. Sure, you might be able to make money this way — though I
bet it's harder than it looks — but pushing people's brand buttons
is just not a good problem to work on, and it's hard to do good
work without a good problem.The more subtle lesson is that fields have natural rhythms that are
beyond the power of individuals to resist. Fields have golden ages
and not so golden ages, and you're much more likely to do good work
in a field that's on the way up.Of course they don't call them golden ages as they're happening.
"Golden age" is a term people use later, after they're over. That
doesn't mean that golden ages aren't real, but rather that their
participants take them for granted at the time. They don't know how
good they have it. But while it's usually a mistake to take one's
good fortune for granted, it's not in this case. What a golden age
feels like, at the time, is just that smart people are working hard
on interesting problems and getting results. It would be overfitting
to optimize for more than that.In fact there's a single principle that will both save you from
working on things like brand, and also automatically find golden
ages for you. Follow the problems.The way to find golden ages is not to go looking for them. The way
to find them — the way almost all their participants have found
them historically — is by following interesting problems. If you're
smart and ambitious and honest with yourself, there's no better
guide than your taste in problems. Go where interesting problems
are, and you'll probably find that other smart and ambitious people
have turned up there too. And later they'll look back on what you
did together and call it a golden age.Notes[1]
The Bretton Woods agreement didn't fix exchange rates between
currencies directly. It fixed each relative to gold. Obviously this
also fixed them relative to one another.[2]
The Golden Ellipse isn't quite a round rect, because the sides
aren't quite flat. It's similar in shape to the superellipses
popularized by Piet Hein in the early 1960s, and in fact that may
be where they got the name. But mathematically it's not an actual
superellipse. My guess is that Patek's designer just experimented
with French curves till he got something he liked. And to be fair
it is a good shape.[3]
It was ironic that Patek Philippe of all companies made this
mistake, because Adrien Philippe was the inventor of the modern
crown. But they must have realized what they'd done, because later
Ellipses have if anything excessively prominent crowns.[4]
The high ratio of design space to practitioners in fine art
has combined with the practical importance of attribution to give
people the impression that painting in a distinctively Leonardesque
way is what makes Leonardo good. The most dangerous problem faced
by curators, art historians, and art dealers — the one that has
the worst consequences if they get the wrong answer — is attribution.
So inevitably they spend a lot of time thinking and talking about
the features that distinguish the work of one artist from another.
But those aren't what make artists good. What makes the line of a
woman's cheek in a Leonardo drawing good is how good it looks as
the line of a cheek, not how little it looks like lines made by
other artists.Because painting has such prestige, the myth that having a distinctive
style (rather than painting well) is the defining quality of great
artists has in turn given cover to a lot of bad design in adjacent
fields. A brand that does something hideous to distinguish their
products can say "Like all great works of art, ours have a distinctive
style," and people will buy it.[5]
An ad that Patek Philippe ran in America in 1970 famously
described a Patek 3548 with a gold bracelet as a "$1700 trust fund."
Was it actually a good investment? In the very best case a dealer
might pay you $20k now for one in unworn condition with its original
box and papers. That's about a 4.5% rate of return, which is not
absolutely terrible. But apparently the average rate of return on
S&P 500 stocks over this period was more like 10%, if you reinvested
all the dividends after paying taxes on them. The average rate of
return would have been over 9% if you merely bought a lump of gold
that hadn't been made into a watch. So, not surprisingly, the ad
wasn't very good investment advice.[6]
Tania Edwards, who ran US marketing for Patek Philippe in the
90s, said that Bittel literally sketched the design of the 3919 on
a piece of paper. This sounds odd to me, because the 3919 looked
exactly like the existing 3520 with the addition of sub seconds (a
small dial with a second hand above 6 o'clock). Why would you sketch
a design almost identical to an existing watch when you could just
point to the existing watch and say "that, with sub seconds." What
this story does show, though, is the degree to which people within
Patek felt their ad agency was responsible for the design of the
3919.[7]
If I had to date the turning point for mechanical watches
precisely, I'd say 1986. Unit sales of Swiss watches rebounded in
1985, but revenue didn't, which means what we're seeing is the boom
in cheap quartz Swatches. Indeed, sales of mechanical watches must
have been down if revenue was flat despite the sale of all those
Swatches. Whereas in 1986 revenue turns sharply upward even though
unit sales only increase by a little, which implies a corresponding
increase in sales of expensive mechanical watches.[8]
There is of course another reason some people are into
mechanical watches: because they're interested in old technology.
And if you are genuinely interested in mechanical watches, there's
good news. You don't have to wear a billboard on your wrist or pay
a lot to own one. Just buy golden age watches. They still keep good
time, they're much more beautiful, and they cost a fraction of what
new watches cost.The key to buying a golden age watch is to find a good dealer, and
the best way to recognize one is by how much they tell you about
the watch. A bad dealer will just have a lot of fluff about the
prestige of the brand and the sleek lines of the case. A good dealer
will tell you the model number of the watch and movement, have lots
of pictures, including some with the case back open, give you
dimensions, disclose all damage and restoration, and tell you exactly
how accurately the watch is running. Good dealers tend to be watch
nerds themselves, so they're into this kind of thing.(There are a few independent watchmakers trying earnestly to make
good mechanical watches now, but their efforts show how hard it is
to do good work when the current is against you.)[9]
Oddly enough it might have helped that the 3919 was hand
wound. If a watch runs for long enough, 5 seconds a day starts to
add up. After three months a watch that gains 5 seconds a day will
be 7 minutes fast. But with a hand wound watch you occasionally
forget to wind it, and it runs down. And when you wind it again you
reset it — on average to a time about 30 seconds behind the actual
time. So if you forgot to wind a 3919 every two weeks or so, it
would rarely have shown the wrong time.[10]
There's one brand still waiting to be reinflated: Universal
Genève, which was one of the big players of the golden age but since
1977 has been little more than a brand name passed from acquirer
to acquirer. They're scheduled to come back to life later this year,
no doubt with stories about their long tradition of watchmaking.[11]
More precisely, a high ratio of size to accuracy meant cheap.
It's easier to make a larger movement keep good time, but between
two watches of the same accuracy, the larger was usually the cheaper.[12]
Their form did once follow function. They were originally
diving watches. But they're long since obsolete for this purpose.
Present day diving watches (now called dive computers) are digital
and tell you much more than the time.[13]
Rolex was awarded an average of 16.6 patents per year in the
1950s, but only 1.7 per year in the 1960s.Pierre-Yves Donzé, The Making of a Status Symbol: A Business History
of Rolex, Manchester University Press, 2025.[14]
Rolexes also shared something more specific with SUVs:
aspirational manliness. An internal 1967 report by Rolex's ad agency
J. Walter Thompson explained the idea they were trying to convey: "Because a Rolex is
designed for any situation, however rough or dangerous or heroic
or exalted, it implies that the man who wears it is, potentially,
a hero."Reprinted in Donzé, op cit.[15]
This business model only works when purchase decisions are
driven mainly by brand. In a normal market, if one manufacturer
restricts production, customers just buy from whichever competing
manufacturer offers something as good. It's only when customers are
seeking a certain brand rather than a certain level of performance
that you can manipulate them by restricting its availability.[16]
Of course the first question one has on noticing a bubble is:
will it burst? The reason ordinary bubbles eventually burst is that
speculators get overoptimistic, but in this case the CEO of Patek
Philippe controls the "money supply" and can thus take measures to
cool down an overheated market. So there are probably only two
things that could cause their specific bubble to burst: if his
successor is not as capable, or if the whole custom of wearing
mechanical watches goes away. The latter seems the greater danger.
People aren't going to wear three things on their wrists, so all
it would take is for there to be two popular devices that were worn
on the wrist, and mechanical watches would start to be seen by the
next cohort of young rich people as an old guy thing. It's hard to
imagine a luxury watch brand surviving that.Thanks to Sam Altman, Bill Clerico, 
Daniel Gackle, Luis Garcia, the
people at Goldammer, Jessica Livingston, Ben Miller, Robert Morris,
John Reardon, D'Arcy Rice, Alex Tabarrok, and Garry Tan for reading
drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

June 2025An essay has to tell people something they don't already know. But
there are three different reasons people might not know something,
and they yield three very different kinds of essays.One reason people won't know something is if it's not important to
know. That doesn't mean it will make a bad essay. For example, you
might write a good essay about a particular model of car. Readers
would learn something from it. It would add to their picture of the
world. For a handful of readers it might even spur some kind of
epiphany. But unless this is a very unusual car it's not critical
for everyone to know about it. 
[1]If something isn't important to know, there's no answer to the
question of why people don't know it. Not knowing random facts is
the default. But if you're going to write about things that are
important to know, you have to ask why your readers don't already
know them. Is it because they're inexperienced, or because
they're obtuse?So the three reasons readers might not already know what you tell
them are (a) that it's not important, (b) that they're obtuse, 
or (c) that they're inexperienced.The reason I did this breakdown was to get at the following fact,
which might have seemed controversial if I'd led with it, but should
be obvious now. If you're writing for smart people about important
things, you're writing for the young.Or more precisely, that's where you'll have the most effect. Whatever
you say should also be at least somewhat novel to you, however old
you are. It's not an essay otherwise, because an essay is something
you write to figure something out. But whatever you figure out will
presumably be more of a surprise to younger readers than it is to
you.There's a continuum of surprise. At one extreme, something you read
can change your whole way of thinking. The Selfish Gene did this
to me. It was like suddenly seeing the other interpretation of an
ambiguous image: you can treat genes rather than organisms as the
protagonists, and evolution becomes easier to understand when you
do. At the other extreme, writing merely puts into words something
readers were already thinking — or thought they were.The impact of an essay is how much it changes readers' thinking
multiplied by the importance of the topic. But it's hard to do well
at both. It's hard to have big new ideas about important topics.
So in practice there's a tradeoff: you can change readers' thinking
a lot about moderately important things, or change it a little about
very important ones. But with younger readers the tradeoff shifts.
There's more room to change their thinking, so there's a bigger
payoff for writing about important things.The tradeoff isn't a conscious one, at least not for me. It's more
like a kind of gravitational field that writers work in. But every
essayist works in it, whether they realize it or not.This seems obvious once you state it, but it took me a long time
to understand. I knew I wanted to write for smart people about
important topics. I noticed empirically that I seemed to be writing
for the young. But it took me years to understand that the latter
was an automatic consequence of the former. In fact I only really
figured it out as I was writing this essay.Now that I know it, should I change anything? I don't think so. In
fact seeing the shape of the field that writers work in has reminded
me that I'm not optimizing for returns in it. I'm not trying to
surprise readers of any particular age; I'm trying to surprise
myself.The way I usually decide what to write about is by following
curiosity. I notice something new and dig into it. It would probably
be a mistake to change that. But seeing the shape of the essay field
has set me thinking. What would surprise young readers? Which
important things do people tend to learn late? Interesting question.
I should think about that.Note[1]
It's hard to write a really good essay about an unimportant
topic, though, because a really good essayist will inevitably draw
the topic into deeper waters. E. B. White could write an essay about
how to boil potatoes that ended up being full of timeless wisdom.
In which case, of course, it wouldn't really be about how to boil
potatoes; that would just have been the starting point.Thanks to Jessica Livingston and Michael 
Nielsen for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

May 2025There are two senses in which writing can be good: it can
sound good, and the ideas can be right. It can have nice,
flowing sentences, and it can draw correct conclusions
about important things. It might seem as if these two
kinds of good would be unrelated, like the speed of a car
and the color it's painted. And yet I don't think they
are. I think writing that sounds good is more likely to
be right.So here we have the most exciting kind of idea: one that
seems both preposterous and true. Let's examine it. How
can this possibly be true?I know it's true from writing. You can't simultaneously
optimize two unrelated things; when you push one far
enough, you always end up sacrificing the other. And yet
no matter how hard I push, I never find myself having to
choose between the sentence that sounds best and the one
that expresses an idea best. If I did, it would be
frivolous to care how sentences sound. But in practice it
feels the opposite of frivolous. Fixing sentences that
sound bad seems to help get the ideas right.
[1]By right I mean more than just true. Getting the ideas
right means developing them well — drawing the
conclusions that matter most, and exploring each one to
the right level of detail. So getting the ideas right is
not just a matter of saying true things, but saying the
right true things.How could trying to make sentences sound good help you do
that? The clue to the answer is something I noticed 30
years ago when I was doing the layout for my first book.
Sometimes when you're laying out text you have bad luck.
For example, you get a section that runs one line longer
than the page. I don't know what ordinary typesetters do
in this situation, but what I did was rewrite the section
to make it a line shorter. You'd expect such an arbitrary
constraint to make the writing worse. But I found, to my
surprise, that it never did. I always ended up with
something I liked better.I don't think this was because my writing was especially
careless. I think if you pointed to a random paragraph in
anything written by anyone and told them to make it
slightly shorter (or longer), they'd probably be able to
come up with something better.The best analogy for this phenomenon is when you shake a
bin full of different objects. The shakes are arbitrary
motions. Or more precisely, they're not calculated to
make any two specific objects fit more closely together.
And yet repeated shaking inevitably makes the objects
discover brilliantly clever ways of packing themselves.
Gravity won't let them become less tightly packed, so any
change has to be a change for the better.
[2]So it is with writing. If you have to rewrite an awkward
passage, you'll never do it in a way that makes it less
true. You couldn't bear it, any more than gravity could
bear things floating upward. So any change in the ideas
has to be a change for the better.It's obvious once you think about it. Writing that sounds
good is more likely to be right for the same reason that
a well-shaken bin is more likely to be tightly packed.
But there's something else going on as well. Sounding
good isn't just a random external force that leaves the
ideas in an essay better off. It actually helps you to
get them right.The reason is that it makes the essay easier to read.
It's less work to read writing that flows well. How does
that help the writer? Because the writer is the first
reader. When I'm working on an essay, I spend far more
time reading than writing. I'll reread some parts 50 or
100 times, replaying the thoughts in them and asking
myself, like someone sanding a piece of wood, does
anything catch? Does anything feel wrong? And the easier
the essay is to read, the easier it is to notice if
something catches.So yes, the two senses of good writing are connected in
at least two ways. Trying to make writing sound good
makes you fix mistakes unconsciously, and also helps you
fix them consciously; it shakes the bin of ideas, and
also makes mistakes easier to see. But now that we've
dissolved one layer of preposterousness, I can't resist
adding another. Does sounding good do more than just help
you get the ideas right? Is writing that sounds good
inherently more likely to be right? Crazy as it may
seem, I think that's true too.Obviously there's a connection at the level of individual
words. There are lots of words in English that sound like
what they mean, often in wonderfully subtle ways.
Glitter. Round. Scrape. Prim. Cavalcade. But the sound of
good writing depends even more on the way you put words
together, and there's a connection at that level too.When writing sounds good, it's mostly because it has good
rhythm. But the rhythm of good writing is not the rhythm
of music, or the meter of verse. It's not so regular. If
it were, it wouldn't be good, because the rhythm of good
writing has to match the ideas in it, and ideas have all
kinds of different shapes. Sometimes they're simple and
you just state them. But other times they're more subtle,
and you need longer, more complicated sentences to tease
out all the implications.An essay is a cleaned up train of thought, in the same
way dialogue is cleaned up conversation, and a train of
thought has a natural rhythm. So when an essay sounds
good, it's not merely because it has a pleasing rhythm,
but because it has its natural one. Which means you can
use getting the rhythm right as a heuristic for getting
the ideas right. And not just in principle: good writers
do both simultaneously as a matter of course. Often I
don't even distinguish between the two problems. I just
think Ugh, this doesn't sound right; what do I mean to
say here?
[3]The sound of writing turns out to be more like the shape
of a plane than the color of a car. If it looks good, as
Kelly Johnson used to say, it will fly well.This is only true of writing that's used to develop
ideas, though. It doesn't apply when you have ideas in
some other way and then write about them afterward — for
example, if you build something, or conduct an
experiment, and then write a paper about it. In such
cases the ideas often live more in the work than the
writing, so the writing can be bad even though the ideas
are good. The writing in textbooks and popular surveys
can be bad for the same reason: the author isn't
developing the ideas, merely describing other people's.
It's only when you're writing to develop ideas that
there's such a close connection between the two senses of
doing it well.Ok, many people will be thinking, this seems plausible so
far, but what about liars? Is it not notoriously possible
for a smooth-tongued liar to write something beautiful
that's completely false?It is, of course. But not without method acting. The way
to write something beautiful and false is to begin by
making yourself almost believe it. So just like someone
writing something beautiful and true, you're presenting a
perfectly-formed train of thought. The difference is the
point where it attaches to the world. You're saying
something that would be true if certain false premises
were. If for some bizarre reason the number of jobs in a
country were fixed, then immigrants really would be
taking our jobs.So it's not quite right to say that better sounding
writing is more likely to be true. Better sounding
writing is more likely to be internally consistent. If
the writer is honest, internal consistency and truth
converge.But while we can't safely conclude that beautiful writing
is true, it's usually safe to conclude the converse:
something that seems clumsily written will usually have
gotten the ideas wrong too.Indeed, the two senses of good writing are more like two
ends of the same thing. The connection between them is
not a rigid one; the goodness of good writing is not a
rod but a rope, with multiple overlapping connections
running through it. But it's hard to move one end without
moving the other. It's hard to be right without sounding
right.Notes[1]
The closest thing to an exception is when you have
to go back and insert a new point into the middle of
something you've written. This often messes up the flow,
sometimes in ways you can never quite repair. But I think
the ultimate source of this problem is that ideas are
tree-shaped and essays are linear. You inevitably run
into difficulties when you try to cram the former into
the latter. Frankly it's surprising how much you can get
away with. But even so you sometimes have to resort to an
endnote.[2]
Obviously if you shake the bin hard enough the
objects in it can become less tightly packed. And
similarly, if you imposed some huge external constraint
on your writing, like using alternating one and two
syllable words, the ideas would start to suffer.[3]
Bizarrely enough, this happened in the writing of
this very paragraph. An earlier version shared several
phrases in common with the preceding paragraph, and the
repetition bugged me each time I reread it. When I got
annoyed enough to fix it, I discovered that the
repetition reflected a problem in the underlying ideas,
and I fixed both simultaneously.Thanks to Jessica Livingston 
and Courtenay Pipkin for reading drafts of this.

 ---- NEW ESSAY ---- 

March 2025What should one do? That may seem a strange question, but it's not
meaningless or unanswerable. It's the sort of question kids ask
before they learn not to ask big questions. I only came across it
myself in the process of investigating something else. But once I
did, I thought I should at least try to answer it.So what should one do? One should help people, and take care of
the world. Those two are obvious. But is there anything else? When
I ask that, the answer that pops up is Make good new things.I can't prove that one should do this, any more than I can prove
that one should help people or take care of the world. We're talking
about first principles here. But I can explain why this principle
makes sense. The most impressive thing humans can do is to think.
It may be the most impressive thing that can be done. And the best
kind of thinking, or more precisely the best proof that one has
thought well, is to make good new things.I mean new things in a very general sense. Newton's physics was a
good new thing. Indeed, the first version of this principle was to
have good new ideas. But that didn't seem general enough: it didn't
include making art or music, for example, except insofar as they
embody new ideas. And while they may embody new ideas, that's not
all they embody, unless you stretch the word "idea" so uselessly
thin that it includes everything that goes through your nervous
system.Even for ideas that one has consciously, though, I prefer the
phrasing "make good new things." There are other ways to describe
the best kind of thinking. To make discoveries, for example, or to
understand something more deeply than others have. But how well do
you understand something if you can't make a model of it, or write
about it? Indeed, trying to express what you understand is not just
a way to prove that you understand it, but a way to understand it
better.Another reason I like this phrasing is that it biases us toward
creation. It causes us to prefer the kind of ideas that are naturally
seen as making things rather than, say, making critical observations
about things other people have made. Those are ideas too, and
sometimes valuable ones, but it's easy to trick oneself into believing
they're more valuable than they are. Criticism seems sophisticated,
and making new things often seems awkward, especially at first; and
yet it's precisely those first steps that are most rare and valuable.Is newness essential? I think so. Obviously it's essential in
science. If you copied a paper of someone else's and published it
as your own, it would seem not merely unimpressive but dishonest.
And it's similar in the arts. A copy of a good painting can be a
pleasing thing, but it's not impressive in the way the original
was. Which in turn implies it's not impressive to make the same
thing over and over, however well; you're just copying yourself.Note though that we're talking about a different kind of should
with this principle. Taking care of people and the world are shoulds
in the sense that they're one's duty, but making good new things
is a should in the sense that this is how to live to one's full
potential. Historically most rules about how to live have been a
mix of both kinds of should, though usually with more of the former
than the latter. 
[1]For most of history the question "What should one do?" got much the
same answer everywhere, whether you asked Cicero or Confucius. You
should be wise, brave, honest, temperate, and just, uphold tradition,
and serve the public interest. There was a long stretch where in
some parts of the world the answer became "Serve God," but in
practice it was still considered good to be wise, brave, honest,
temperate, and just, uphold tradition, and serve the public interest.
And indeed this recipe would have seemed right to most Victorians.
But there's nothing in it about taking care of the world or making
new things, and that's a bit worrying, because it seems like this
question should be a timeless one. The answer shouldn't change much.I'm not too worried that the traditional answers don't mention
taking care of the world. Obviously people only started to care
about that once it became clear we could ruin it. But how can making
good new things be important if the traditional answers don't mention
it?The traditional answers were answers to a slightly different question.
They were answers to the question of how to be, rather than what
to do. The audience didn't have a lot of choice about what to do.
The audience up till recent centuries was the landowning class,
which was also the political class. They weren't choosing between
doing physics and writing novels. Their work was foreordained:
manage their estates, participate in politics, fight when necessary.
It was ok to do certain other kinds of work in one's spare time,
but ideally one didn't have any. Cicero's De Officiis is one of the
great classical answers to the question of how to live, and in it
he explicitly says that he wouldn't even be writing it if he hadn't
been excluded from public life by recent political upheavals.
[2]There were of course people doing what we would now call "original
work," and they were often admired for it, but they weren't seen
as models. Archimedes knew that he was the first to prove that a
sphere has 2/3 the volume of the smallest enclosing cylinder and
was very pleased about it. But you don't find ancient writers urging
their readers to emulate him. They regarded him more as a prodigy
than a model.Now many more of us can follow Archimedes's example and devote most
of our attention to one kind of work. He turned out to be a model
after all, along with a collection of other people that his
contemporaries would have found it strange to treat as a distinct
group, because the vein of people making new things ran at right
angles to the social hierarchy.What kinds of new things count? I'd rather leave that question to
the makers of them. It would be a risky business to try to define
any kind of threshold, because new kinds of work are often despised
at first. Raymond Chandler was writing literal pulp fiction, and
he's now recognized as one of the best writers of the twentieth
century. Indeed this pattern is so common that you can use it as a
recipe: if you're excited about some kind of work that's not
considered prestigious and you can explain what everyone else is
overlooking about it, then this is not merely a kind of work that's
ok to do, but one to seek out.The other reason I wouldn't want to define any thresholds is that
we don't need them. The kind of people who make good new things 
don't need rules to keep them honest.So there's my guess at a set of principles to live by: take care
of people and the world, and make good new things. Different people
will do these to varying degrees. There will presumably be lots who
focus entirely on taking care of people. There will be a few who
focus mostly on making new things. But even if you're one of those,
you should at least make sure that the new things you make don't
net harm people or the world. And if you go a step further and
try to make things that help them, you may find you're ahead on the
trade. You'll be more constrained in what you can make, but you'll
make it with more energy.On the other hand, if you make something amazing, you'll often be
helping people or the world even if you didn't mean to. Newton was
driven by curiosity and ambition, not by any practical effect his
work might have, and yet the practical effect of his work has been
enormous. And this seems the rule rather than the exception. So
if you think you can make something amazing, you should probably
just go ahead and do it.Notes[1]
We could treat all three as the same kind of should by saying
that it's one's duty to live well — for example by saying, as some
Christians have, that it's one's duty to make the most of one's
God-given gifts. But this seems one of those casuistries people
invented to evade the stern requirements of religion: it was permissible to
spend time studying math instead of praying or performing acts of
charity because otherwise you were rejecting a gift God had given
you. A useful casuistry no doubt, but we don't need it.We could also combine the first two principles, since people are
part of the world. Why should our species get special treatment?
I won't try to justify this choice, but I'm skeptical that anyone
who claims to think differently actually lives according to their
principles.[2]
Confucius was also excluded from public life after ending up
on the losing end of a power struggle, and presumably he too would
not be so famous now if it hadn't been for this long stretch of
enforced leisure.Thanks to Trevor Blackwell, Jessica 
Livingston, and Robert Morris for reading drafts of this.
